 zz                                                                                                 
  zzz                                                                                               
z  ggzz                                                                                             
 zzzgggzz                                                                                           
  zzzgzzzz-zz                                                                                       
   zzzzz-----z                                                                                      
    zzz---zz--sz                                                                                    
    zz---zzzz-zz                                                                                    
    zz---z  z--sz                                                                                   
     zz--------zz                                                                                   
      zz-------z                                                                                    
       zzz-----z                                                                                    
        zzzzz--z                                                                                    
         zzzzz-                                                                                     
        zzzzzzz                                                                                     
        zzzzzzz             zzz-----------zzzz                                                      
        zzzzzzz          zz-----------------------zzzz                                              
        zzzzzzz        z------------------------------zzzzzz                                        
        zzzzzz       z-----------------------------------zzzzzzzzzzz                                
       zzzzzzz     z-----------------------------------------zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz           zzzzzzzzz
       zzzzzzz    z----------------------------------------------zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz
       zzzzzzz   z----------------------------------------------------zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz
       zzzzzzz z--------------------------------------------------------------zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz 
       zzzzzzz z---------------------------------------------------------------------zzzzzzzzzzzzz  
      zzzzzzzzz-------------------------------------------------------------------------zzzzzzzzz   
      zzzzzzzz-------------------------------------------------------------------------zzzzzzzzz    
      zzzzzzz------------------------------------------------------------------------zzzzzzzzz      
     zzzzzzzzz----------------------------------------------------------------------zzzzzzzz        
     zzzzzzzzz--------------------------------------------------------------------zzzzzzzz          
     zzzzzzzzz------------------------------------------------------------------zzzzzzzz            
     zzzzzzzzz----------------------------------------------------------------zzzzzzz               
    zzzzzzz-----------------------------------------------------------------zzzzz                   
    zzzzzz----z----------zzz3333333333333333333333zzzzzz--------------zzzzz                         
    zzzzz-----z--------z333333333333333333333333333333z                                             
    zzz--------------z333333333333333333333333333333333z                   zzzzzzz                  
    zz---------z----z33333333333333333333333333333333333z             zzzzzzzzzzzzzzz               
    z-----------z---z333333333333333333333333333333333333z        zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz               
    z---------------z3333333333333333333333333333333333333   zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz               
    -------------z--z3333333333333333333333333333333333333z----zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz               
    --------------zz-33333333333333333333333333333333333333-----zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz               
    ----------------z33333333333333333333333333333333333333z----zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz                
    -----------------zz333333333333333333333333333333333333z----zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz                 
    -------------------z33333333333333333333333333333333333z----zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz                  
    --------------------z3333333333333333333333333333333333-----zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz                   
    z---------------------z3333333333333333333333333333333z----zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz                    
    z----------------------zz33333333333333333333333333333z----zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz                     
    z-------------------------z33333333333333333333333333z----zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz                      
     z--------------------------z33333333333333333333333z-----zzzzzzzzzzzzzzz                       
     z----------------------------z33333333333333333333z-----zzzzzzzzzzzzzzz                        
      z------------------------------zz33333333333333z------zzzzzzzzzzzzzzz                         
       ----------------------------------zz3333333zz-------zzzzzzzzzzzzzz                           
       z-------------------------------------------------zzzzzzzzzzzzzz                             
        z-----------------------------------------------zzzzzzzzzzzzzz                              
         z---------------------------------------------zzzzzzzzzzzzz                                
           z-----------------------------------------zzzzzzzzzzzz                                   
            z--------------------------------------zzzzzzzzzzzz                                     
              zz-------------------------------zzzzzzzzzz                                           
                 zz------------------------zz                                                       
                     zzz-------------zzzz                                                           
                    z            z                                                                  
                    z                                                                               
                    z                                                                               
                                                                                                    
                     z           z                                                                  
                     z           z                                                                  
                      z          z                                                                  
                       z        z                                                                   
                        z      z                                                                    
                         zz  zz                                                                     
                                                                                                    
                           z  z                                                                     
                           z  z                                                                     
                           z  z                                                                     
                           z  z                                                                     
                           z  z                                                                     
                                                                                                    
                                                                                                    
                            z                                                                       
                            z                                                                       
                            z  z                                                                    
                            z  z                                                                    
                               z                                                                    
                             z z                                                                    
                             z z                                                                    
                             z z                                                                    
                                                                                                    
                                                                                                    
                                z                                                                   
                              z z                                                                   
                              z z                                                                   
                              z                                                                     
                              z  z                                                                  
                              z  z                                                                  
                              z                                                                     
                             z    z                                                                 
                           zz     z                                                                 
                       zz          zz                                                               
                  zz       zzz    z  z                                                              
               zz    zzz             zz                                                             
              zzz                                                                                   







can't do a thing ? " " Exactly, sir." I fell into a moody silence. Apart
from astounding me, this revelation had had the effect of engendering a
poignant anguish. I mean to say, the thought that I had let this man get
away from me, that he was now in Chuffy's employment, and that there was
a fat chance of Chuffy ever being chump enough to put him into
circulation again . . . well, dash it, you can't say it wasn't enough to
shove the iron into the soul. It was with something of the spirit of the
old aristocrat mounting the tumbril that I forced myself to wear the
mask. " Cigarette, Jeeves ? " He produced the box, and I puffed in
silence. "Might I ask, sir, what you intend to do now?" I came out of
the reverie. " Eh ? " " Now that your cottage is burned down, sir.

Is it your purpose to take another in this neighbourhood ? " I shook the
head. " No, Jeeves, I shall return to the metrop." " To your former
apartment, sir ? " " Yes." "But . . ." I anticipated the question. " I
know what you are going to say, Jeeves. You are thinking of Mr.
Manglehoffer, of the       " Honourable Mrs. Tinkler-MouIke and
Lieutenant-Colonel J. J. Bustard. But circumstances have altered since I
was compelled to take the firm stand I did in regard to their attitude
towards the old banjolele. From now on, there will be       i no
friction. My banjolele perished in the flames last night, Jeeves. I
shall not buy another." " No, sir ? " " No, Jeeves. The zest has gone. I
should not be able to twang a string without thinking of Brinkley. And
the one thing I do not wish to do till further notice is think of that
man of wrath." " You are not intending to retain him in your employment,
then, sir ? " " Retain him in my employment ? After what has occurred ?
After finishing first by the shortest of heads in the race with him and
his carving knife ? I do not so intend, Jeeves. Stalin, yes. Al Capone,
certainly. But not Brinkley." He coughed. " Then, as there is a vacancy
in your establishment, sir, I wonder if you would consider

it a liberty if I were to offer my services ? " I upset the coffeepot. "
You said-what, Jeeves ? " " I ventured to express the hope, sir, that
you might be agreeable to considering my applicationfor the post.  I
should endeavour to give satisfaction, as I trust I have done in the
past." " But .. ," " I would not wish, in any case, to continue in the
employment of his lordship, sir, now that he is about to be married. I
yield to no one in my admiration for the many qualities of Miss Stoker,
but it has never been my policy to serve in the household of a married
gentleman." " Why not ? " " It is merely a personal feeling, sir." " I
see what you mean. The psychology of the individual ? " " Precisely,
sir." "And you really want to come back with me? " " I should esteem it
a great privilege, sir, if you would allow me to do so, sir, unless you
are thinking of making other plans." It is not easy to find words in
these supreme moments, if you know what I mean. What I mean is, you get
a moment like this-supreme, as you might say-with the clouds all cleared
cls-Mac-mini:GoloFlagship cl$ clear

cls-Mac-mini:GoloFlagship cl$ cat /Users/cl/Downloads/1934\ -\ Thank\ You\,\ Jeeves.txt 
THANK YOU JEEVES [187-066-4.3]

By:  P. G. WODEHOUSE

Category:  Fiction Humor

Synopsis:

No synopsis available.


HERBERT JENKINS LIMITED
:3 YORK STREET ?ST. JAMES'S LONDON S.W., fl fl  fl

CONTENTS

I. JEEVES GIVES NOTICE . - - - 	 7

II. CHUFFY --------21

III. RE-ENTER THE DEAD PAST - - - 	 30

IV. ANNOYING PREDICAMENT OF PAULINE STOKER -	 42

V. BERTIE TAKES THINGS IN HAND - - 	 55

VI. COMPLICATIONS SET IN ----	 66

VII. A VISITOR FOR BERTIE ----	 92

VIII. POLICE PERSECUTION ----	 103

IX. LOVERS' MEETINGS - - - - -	 120

X. ANOTHER VISITOR ------	 134

XI. SINISTER BEHAVIOUR OF A YACHT-OWNER -	 145

XII. START SMEARING, JEEVES t - - - 	 l6l
XIII. A VALET EXCEEDS HIS DUTIES ...	 175
XI? THE BUTTER SITUATION ----	 IQ3

XV. DEVELOPMENT OF THE BUTTER SITUATION -	 207
XVI. TROUBLE AT THE DOWER HOUSE ...	 229
XVII. BREAKFAST-TIME AT THE HALL - - -	 240
XVIII. BLACK WORK IN A STUDY - - - -	 251
XIX. PREPARATIONS FOR HANDLING FATHER - -	 264

XX. JEEVES HAS NEWS .... -	 278
XXI. JEEVES FINDS THE WAY - - - -	 287
XXII. JEEVES APPLIES FOR A SITUATION"- - :	 307

THANK YOU, JEEVES

CHAPTER I

JEEVES   GIVES   NOTICE

I WAS a shade perturbed. Nothing to signify, really, but still just a
spot concerned. As I sat in the old flat, idly touching the strings of
my banjolele, an instrument to which I had become greatly addicted of
late, you couldn't have said that the brow was actually furrowed, and
yet, on the other hand, you couldn't have stated absolutely that it
wasn't. Perhaps the word " pensive " about covers it. It seemed to me
that a situation fraught with embarrassing potentialities had arisen. "
Jeeves," I said, " do you know what ? " " No, sir." " Do you know whom I
saw last night ? " " No, sir." " J. Washbum Stoker and his daughter,
Pauline." " Indeed, sir ? " " They must be over here." " It would seem
so, sir."

* " Awkward, what ? " " I can conceive that after what occurred in New
York it might be distressing for you to encounter Miss Stoker, sir. But
I fancy the contingency need scarcely arise." I weighed this. " When you
start talking about contingencies arising, Jeeves, the brain seems to
flicker and I rather miss the gist. Do you mean that I ought to be able
to keep out of her way ? " " Yes, sir." " Avoid her ? " " Yes, sir." I
played five bars of " Old Man River " with something of abandon. His
pronouncement had eased my mind. I followed his reasoning. After all,
London's a large place.  Quite simple not to run into people, if you
don't want to. " It gave me rather a shock, though." " I can readily
imagine so, sir." " Accentuated by the fact that they were accompanied
by Sir Roderick Glossop." " Indeed, sir ? " " Yes. It was at the Savoy
Grill. They were putting on the nosebag together at a table by the
window. And here's rather a rummy thing, Jeeves. The fourth member of
the party was Lord Chuffnell's aunt. Myrtle. What would she be doing in
that gang ? " *' Possibly her ladyship is an acquaintance

either of Mr. Stoker, Miss Stoker, or Sir Roderick, sir." " Yes, that
may be so. Yes, that might account for it. But it surprised me, I
confess." " Did you enter into conversation with them, sir ? " " Who, me
? No, Jeeves. I was out of the room like a streak. Apart from wishing to
dodge the Stokers, can you see me wantonly and deliberately going and
chatting with old Glossop ? " " Certainly he has never proved a very
congenial companion in the past, sir." " If there is one man in the
world I hope never to exchange speech with again, it is that old crumb."
" I forgot to mention, sir, that Sir Roderick called to see you this
morning." " What! " " Yes, sir." " He called to see me ? " " Yes, sir."
" After what has passed between us ? " " Yes, sir." " Well, I'm dashed I
" " Yes, sir. I informed him that you had not yet risen, and he said
that he would return later." " He did, did he ? " I laughed. One of
those sardonic ones. " Well, when he does, set the dog on him."

" We have no dog, sir." " Then step down to the flat below and borrow
Mrs. Tinkler-Moulke's Pomeranian. Paying social calls after the way he
behaved in New York I I never heard of such a thing. Did you ever hear
of such a thing, Jeeves ? " " I confess that in the circumstances his
advent occasioned me surprise, sir." " I should think it did. Good Lord
I Good heavens! Good gosh I The man must have the crust of a
rhinoceros." And when I have given you the inside story, I think you
will agree with me that my heat was justified. Let me marshal my facts
and go to it.

About three months before, noting a certain liveliness in my Aunt
Agatha, I had deemed it prudent to pop across to New York for a space to
give her time to blow over. And about half-way through my first week
there, in the course of a beano of some description at the
Sherry-Netherland, I made the acquaintance of Pauline Stoker. She got
right in amongst me. Her beauty maddened me like wine. " Jeeves," I
recollect saying, on returning to the apartment, " who was the fellow
who on looking at something felt like somebody looking at something ? I
learned the passage at school, but it has escaped me."

JEEVES GIVES NOTICE    II " I fancy the individual you have in mind,
sir, is the poet Keats, who compared his emotions on first reading
Chapman's Homer to those of stout Cortez when with eagle eyes he stared
at the Pacific." " The Pacific, eh ? " " Yes, sir. And all his men
looked at each other with a wild surmise, silent upon a peak in Darien."
" Of course. It all comes back to me. Well, that's how I felt this
afternoon on being introduced to Miss Pauline Stoker.  Press the
trousers with special care to-night, Jeeves. I am dining with her." In
New York, I have always found, one gets off the mark quickly in matters
of the heart. This, I believe, is due to something in the air. Two weeks
later I proposed to Pauline. She       /j accepted me. So far, so good.
But mark the sequel. Scarcely forty-eight hours after that a monkey
wrench was bunged into the machinery and the whole thing was off. The
hand that flung that monkey wrench was the hand of Sir Roderick Glossop.
In these memoirs of mine, as you may recall, I have had occasion to make
somewhat frequent mention of this old pot of poison. A bald-       ?I
domed, bushy-browed blighter, ostensibly a nerve specialist, but in
reality, as everybody knows, nothing more nor less than a high-priced
loony-doctor, he has been cropping up

in my path for years, always with the most momentous results. And it so
happened that he was in New York when the announcement of my engagement
appeared in the     / papers. What brought him there was one of his
periodical visits to J. Washbum Stoker's second cousin, George. This
George was a man who, after a lifetime of doing down the widow and
orphan, had begun to feel the strain a bit. His conversation was odd,
and he had a tendency to walk on his hands. He had been a patient of Sir
Roderick's for some years, and it was the latter's practice to dash over
to New York every once in a while to take a look at him. He arrived on
the present occasion just in time to read over the morning coffee and
egg the news that Bertram Wooster and Pauline Stoker were planning to do
the Wedding Glide. And, as far as I can ascertain, he was at the
telephone, ringing up the father of the bride-to-be, without so much as
stopping to wipe his mouth. Well, what he told J. Washbum about me I
cannot, of course, say: but, at a venture, I imagine, he informed him
that I had once been engaged to his daughter, Honoria, and that he had
broken off the match because he had decided that I was barmy to the
core. He would have touched, no doubt, on the incident of the cats and
the fish in my bedroom : possibly, also, on the episode of the stolen
hat and my

habit of climbing down waterspouts: winding up, it may be, with a
description of the unfortunateaffair of the punctured hot-water bottle
at Lady Wickham's. A close friend of J. Washbum's and a man on whose
judgment J. W. relied, I take it that he had little difficulty in
persuading the latter that I was not the ideal son-in-law. At any rate,
as I say, within a mere forty-eight hours of the holy moment I was
notified that it would be unnecessary for me to order the new sponge-bag
trousers and gardenia, because my nomination had been cancelled. And it
was this man who was having the cool what's-the-word to come calling at
the Wooster home. I mean, I ask you I I resolved to be pretty terse with
him. I was still playing the banjolele when he arrived. Those who know
Bertram Wooster best are aware that he is a man of sudden, strong
enthusiasms and that, when in the grip of one of these, he becomes a
remorseless machine-tense, absorbed, single-minded. It was so in the
matter of this banjolele-playing of mine. Since the night at the
Alhambra when the supreme virtuosity of Ben Bloom and his Sixteen
Baltimore Buddies had fired me to take up the study of the instrument,
not a day had passed without its couple of hours' assiduous practice.
And I was twanging the strings like one inspired when the door opened
and Jeeves

shovelled in the foul strait-waistcoat specialist to whom I have just
been alluding. In the interval which had elapsed since I had first been
apprised of the man's desire to have speech with me, I had been thinking
things over : and the only conclusion to which I could come was that he
must have had a change of heart of some nature and decided that an
apology was due me for the way he had behaved. It was, therefore, a
somewhat softened Bertram Wooster who now rose to do the honours. " Ah,
Sir Roderick," I said. " Good morning-Nothingcould have exceeded the
courtesy with which I had spoken. Conceive of my astonishment,
therefore, when his only reply was a grunt, and an indubitably
unpleasant grunt, at that. I felt that my diagnosis of the situation had
been wrong. Right off the bull's-eye I had been. Here was no
square-shooting apologizer. He couldn't have been glaring at me with
more obvious distaste if I had been the germ of dementia praecox. Well,
if that was the attitude he was proposing to adopt, well, I mean to say.
My geniality waned. I drew myself up coldly, at the same time raising a
stiff eyebrow. And I was just about to work off the old
To-what-am-Ii?sdebtedforthis-visit gag, when he chipped in ahead of me.
" You ought to be certified I "

" I beg your pardon ? " " You're a public menace. For weeks, it appears,
you have been making life a hell for all/your neighbours with some
hideous musical instrument. I see you have it with you now. How dare you
play that thing in a respectable block of flats ? Infernal din I " I
remained cool and dignified. " Did you say ' infernal din ' ? " " I
did." " Oh ? Well, let me tell you that the man that hath no music in
himself ..." I stepped to the door. " Jeeves," I called down the
passage, " what was it Shakespeare said the man who hadn't music in
himself was fit for ? " " Treasons, stratagems, and spoils, sir." "
Thank you, Jeeves. Is fit for treasons, " stratagems, and spoils," I
said, returning. He danced a step or two. " Are you aware that the
occupant of the ,lkt below, Mrs. Tinkler-MouIke, is one of my ^patients,
a woman in a highly nervous condir.^on. I have had to give her a
sedative." A" I raised a hand. s ' " Spare me the gossip from the
loony-bin," ..|('?aid distantly. " Might I inquire, on my side, 'llyou
are aware that Mrs. Tinkler-MouIke owns Pomeranian ? "Don't drivel." I"
I am not drivelling. This animal yaps all and not infrequently far into
the night.

l6     THANK YOU, JEEVES So Mrs. Tinkler-MouIke has had the nerve to
complain of my banjolele, has she ? Ha I Let her first pluck out the
Porn which is in her own eye," I said, becoming a bit scriptural. He
chafed visibly. " I am not here to talk about dogs. I wish for your
assurance that you will immediately cease annoying this unfortunate
woman." I shook the head. " I am sorry she is a cold audience, but my
art must come first." " That is your final word, is it ? " " It is." "
Very good. You will hear more of. this." " And Mrs. Tinkler-MouIke will
hear more of this," I replied, brandishing the banjolele. I touched the
buzzer. " Jeeves," I said, " show Sir R. Glossop out! "

I confess that I was well pleased with the manner in which I had
comported myself during. this clash of wills. There was a time, you must
remember, when the sudden appearance of old Glossop in my sitting-room
would have been enough to send me bolting for cover like a rabbit. But
since then I had passed through the furnace, and the sight of him no
longer filled me with a nameless dread. With a good deal of quiet
self-satisfaction I proceeded to play " The Wedding of the Painted DoU,"
" Singin'

In the Rain," " Three Little Words," " GoodNight, Sweetheart," "My Love
Parade," " Spring Is Here," " Whose Baby Are You," and part of '/ I Want
an Automobile With a Horn That "Goes Toot-Toot," in the order named :
and it was as I was approaching the end of this last number that the
telephone rang. I went to the instrument and stood listening. And, as I
listened, my face grew hard and set. " Very good, Mr. Manglehoffer," I
said coldly. " You may inform Mrs. Tinkler-MouIke and her associates
that I choose the latter alternative." I touched the bell. " Jeeves," I
said, " there has been a spot of trouble." " Indeed, sir ? " "
Unpleasantness is rearing its ugly head in Berkeley Mansions, W.I. I
note also a lack of give-and-take and an absence of the neighbourly
spirit. I have just been talking to the manager of this building on the
telephone, and he has delivered an ultimatum. He says I must either
chuck playing the banjolele or clear out." " Indeed, sir ? " "
Complaints, it would seem, have been lodged by the Honourable Mrs.
TinklerMouIke, of C.6; by Lieutenant-Colonel J. J. Bustard, D.S.O., of
B.5 ; and by Sir Everard and Lady Blennerhassett, of B.7. All right. So
be it. I don't care. We shall be well rid of these %ikler-Moulkes, these
Bustards, and these B

l8     THANK YOU, JEEVES Blennerhassetts. I leave them without a pang."
" You are proposing to move, sir ? " I raised the eybrows. " Surely,
Jeeves, you cannot imagine that I ever considered any other course ? " "
But I fear you "will encounter a similar hostility elsewhere, sir." "
Not where I am going. It is my intention to retire to the depths of the
country. In some old world, sequestered nook I shall find a cottage, and
there resume my studies." " A cottage, sir ? " " A cottage, Jeeves. If
possible, honysuckle-covered." The next moment, you could have knocked
me down with a toothpick. There was a brief pause, and then Jeeves, whom
I have nurtured in my bosom, so to speak, for years and years and years,
gave a sort of cough and there proceeded from his lips these incredible
words : " In that case, I fear I must give my notice." There was a tense
silence. I stared at the man. " Jeeves," I said, and you wouldn't be far
out in describing me as stunned, " did I hear you correctly ? " " Yes,
sir." " You actually contemplate leaving my entourage ? " " Only with
the greatest reluctance, sir. But

if it is your intention to play that instrument within the narrow
confines of a country cottage ..." I drew myself up. " You say ' that
instrument,' Jeeves. And you say it in an unpleasant, soupy voice. Am I
to understand that you dislike this banjolele ? " " Yes, sir." " You've
stood it all right up to now." " With grave difficulty, sir." " And let
me tell you that better men than you have stood worse than banjoleles.
Are you aware that a certain Bulgarian, Elia Gospodinoff, once played
the bagpipes for twenty-four hours without a stop ? Ripley vouches for
this in his * Believe It Or Not.' " " Indeed, sir ? " " Well, do you
suppose Gospodinoff's personal attendant kicked ? A laughable idea. They
are made of better stuff than that in Bulgaria. I am convinced that he
was behind the young master from start to finish of his attempt on the
Central European record, and I have no doubt frequently rallied round
with ice packs and other restoratives. Be Bulgarian, Jeeves." " No, sir.
I fear I cannot recede from my position." " But, dash it, you say you
are receding from your position." ' " I should have said, I cannot
abandon the Stand which I have taken."

I mused awhile. " You mean this, Jeeves ? " " Yes, sir." " You have
thought it all out carefully, weighing the pros and cons, balancing this
against that ? " " Yes, sir." " And you are resolved ? " " Yes, sir. If
it is really your intention to continue playing that instrument, I have
no option but to leave." The Wooster blood boiled over. Circumstances of
recent years have so shaped themselves as to place this blighter in a
position which you might describe as that of a domestic Mussolini: but,
forgetting this ' and sticking simply to cold fact, what is Jeeves,
after all ? A valet. A salaried attendant. And a fellow simply can't go
on truckling-do I mean truckling ? I know it begins with a " t "-to his
valet for ever. There comes a moment when he must remember that his
ancestors did dashed well at the Battle of Crecy and put the old foot
down. This moment had now arrived. " Then, leave, dash it'. " " Very
good, sir."

CHAPTER II

CHUFFY

I CONFESS that it was in sombre mood that I assembled the stick, the
hat, and the lemon-coloured some half-hour later and strode out into the
streets of London. But though I did not care to think what existence
would be like without Jeeves, I had no thought of weakening. As I fumed
the corner into Piccadilly, I was a thing of fire and chilled steel; and
I think in about another half-jiffy I should have been snorting, if not
actually shouting the ancient battle cry of the Woosters, had I not
observed on the skyline a familiar form. This familiar form was none
other than that of my boyhood friend, the fifth Baron Chuffnell -the
chap, if you remember, whose Aunt Myrtle I had seen the previous night
hobnobbingwith the hellhound, Glossop. The sight of him reminded me that
I was in the market for a country cottage and that here was the very
chap to supply same. I wonder if I have ever told you about Chuffy ?
Stop me if I have. He's a fellow I've known more or less all my life, he
and self

having been at private school, Eton and Oxford together. We don't see a
frightful lot of one another nowadays, however, as he spends most of his
time down at Chuffnell Regis on the coast of Somersetshire, where he
owns an enormous great place with about a hundred and hfty rooms and
miles of rolling parkland. Don't run away, however, on the strength of
this, with the impression that Chuffy is one of my wealthier cronies.
He's dashed hard up, poor bloke, like most fellows who own land, and
only lives at Chuffnell Hall because he's stuck with it and can't afford
to live anywhere else. If somebody came to him and offered to buy the
place, he would kiss him on both cheeks. But who wants to buy a house
that size in these times ? He can't even let it. So he sticks on there
most of the year, with nobody to talk to except the local doctor and
parson and his Aunt Myrtle and her twelve-year-old son, Seabury, who
live at the Dower House in the park. A pretty mouldy existence for one
who at the University gave bright promise of becoming one of the lads.
Chuffy also owns the village of Chuffnell Regis -not that that does him
much good, either. I mean to say, the taxes on the estate and all the
expenses of repairs and what not come to pretty nearly as much as he
gets out of the rents, making the thing more or less of a washout.
Still, he is the landlord, and, as such, would

Doubtless have dozens of cottages at his disposal and probably only too
glad of the chance of easing one of them off on to a reputable tenant
like myself. " You're the very chap I wanted to see, Chuffy," I said
accordingly, after our initial what-ho-ing, " Come right along with me
to the Drones for a bite of lunch. I can put a bit of business in your
way." He shook his head, wistfully, I thought. "I'd like it, Bertie, but
I'm due at the Carlton in five minutes I'mlunching with a man." " Give
him a miss." " I couldn't." " Well, bring him along, then, and we'll
make it a threesome." Chuffy smiled rather wanly. " I don't think you'd
enjoy it, Bertie. He's Sir Roderick Glossop." I goggled. It's always a
bit of a shock, when you've just parted from Bloke A., to meet JBloke B.
and have Bloke B. suddenly bring Bloke A. into the conversation. " Sir
Roderick Glossop ? " ?"Yes." " But I didn't know you knew him." <? " I
don't, very well. Just met him a couple times. He's a great friend of my
Aunt rtle." ; Ah! that explains it. I saw her dining him last night."

" Well, if you come to the Carlton, you'll see me lunching with him
today." " But, Chuffy, old man, is this wise ? Is this prudent ? It's an
awful ordeal breaking bread with this man. I know. I've done it." " I
dare say, but I've got to go through with it. I had an urgent wire from
him yesterday, telling me to come up and see him without fail, and what
I'm hoping is that he wants to take the Hall for the summer or knows
somebody who does. He would hardly wire like that unless there was
something up. No, I shall have to stick it, Bertie. But I'll tell you
what I will do. I'll dine with you to-morrow night." I would have been
all for it, of course, had the circs been different, but I had to
refuse. I had formed my plans and made my arrangementsand they could not
be altered. "I'm sorry, Chuffy. I'm leaving London tomorrow." " You are
? " " Yes. The management of the building where I reside has offered me
the choice between clearing out immediately or ceasing to play the
banjolele. I elected to do the former. I am going to take a cottage in
the country somewhere,and that's what I meant when I said I could put
business in your way. Can you let me have a cottage ? " " I can give you
your choice of half a dozen."

'' "It must be quiet and secluded. I shall be laying the banjolele a
good deal." " I've got the very shack for you. On the edge of the
harbour and not a neighbour within a mile except Police-Sergeant Voules.
And he plays the harmonium. You could do duets." " Fine I " "And there's
a troupe of nigger minstrels down there this year. You could study their
technique." " Chuffy, it sounds like heaven. And we shall be able to see
something of each other for a change." " You don't come playing your
damned banjolele at the Hall." " No, old man. But I'll drop over to
lunch with you most days." " Thanks." " Don't mention it." " By the way,
what has Jeeves got to say about all this ? I shouldn't have thought he
would have cared about leaving London." I stiffened a little. "Jeeves
has nothing to say on that or any other subject. We have parted
brass-rags." " What! " I had anticipated that the news would stagger
him. " Yes," I said, " from now on, Jeeves will :e the high road and
I'll take the low road.

He had the immortal rind to tell me that if I didn't give up my
banjolele he would resign. I accepted his portfolio." " You've really
let him go ? " " I have." " Well, well, well! " I waved a hand
nonchalantly. " These things happen," I said. " I'm not pretending I'm
pleased, of course, but I can bite the bullet. My self-respect would not
permit me to accept the man's terms. You can push a Wooster just so far.
' Very good, Jeeves,' I said to him. ' So be it. I shall watch your
future career with considerable interest.' And that was that." We walked
on for a bit in silence. ' " So you've parted with Jeeves, have you ? "
said Chuffy, in a thoughtful sort of voice. " Well, well, well! Any
objection to my looking in and saying good-bye to him ? " " None
whatever." " It would be a graceful act." " Quite." " I've always
admired his intellect." " Me too. No one more." " I'll go round to the
flat after lunch." " Follow the green line," I said, and my manner was
airy and even careless. This parting of the ways with Jeeves had made me
feel a bit as if I had just stepped on a bomb and was trying to piece
myself together again in a

bleak world, but we Woosters can keep the stiff upper Up.

I lunched at the Drones and spent the afternoonthere. I had much to
think of. Chuffy's news that there was a troupe of nigger minstrels
performing on the Chuffnell Regis sands had definitely weighed the scale
down on the side of the advantages of the place. The fact that I would
be in a position to forgather with these experts and possibly pick up a
hint or two from their banjoist on fingering and execution enabled me to
bear with fortitude the prospect of being in a spot where I would
probably have to meet the Dowager Lady Chuffnell and her son Seabury
pretty frequently. I had often felt how tough it must be for poor old
Chuffy having this pair of pustules popping in and out all the time. And
in saying this I am looking straight at little Seabury, a child who
should have been strangled at birth. I have no positive proof, but I
have always been convinced that it was he who put the lizard in my bed
the last time I stayed at the Hall. But, as I say, I was prepared to put
up with this couple in return for the privilege of being in close
communication with a really hot banjoist, and most of these nigger
minstrel chaps can pick the strings like nobody's business.It was not,
therefore, the thought of them which, as I returned to the flat to dress

for dinner, was filling me with a strange moodiness. No. We Woosters can
be honest with ourselves. What was giving me the pip was the reflection
that Jeeves was about to go out of my life. There never had been anyone
like Jeeves, I felt, as I climbed sombrely into the soup and fish, and
there never would be. A wave of not unmanly sentiment poured over me. I
was conscious of a pang. And when my toilet was completed and I stood
before the mirror, surveying that perfectly pressed coat, those superbly
creased trousers, I came to a swift decision. Abruptly, I went into the
sitting-room and leaned on the bell. " Jeeves," I said. " A word." "
Yes, sir ? " " Jeeves," I said, " touching on our conversation this
morning." " Yes, sir ? " " Jeeves," I said, " I have been thinking
things over. I have come to the conclusion that we have both been hasty.
Let us forget the past. You may stay on." "It is very kind of you, sir,
but . . . are

It was enough. I nodded haughtily. " Very good, Jeeves. That is all. I
will, of course, give you an excellent recommendation." " Thank you,
sir. It will not be necessary. This afternoon I entered the employment
of Lord ChuffneU." I started. " Did Chuffy sneak round here this
afternoon and scoop you in ? " " Yes, sir. I go with him to Chuffnell
Regis in about a week's time." " You do, do you ? Well, it may interest
you to know that I repair to Chuffnell Regis tomorrow." " Indeed, sir ?
" " Yes. I have taken a cottage there. We shall meet at Philippi,
Jeeves." "Yes, sir." " Or am I thinking of some other spot ? " " No,
sir, Philippi is correct." " Very good, Jeeves." " Very good, sir."

Such, then, is the sequence of events which led up to Bertram Wooster,
on the morning of July the fifteenth, standing at the door of Seaview
Cottage, Chuffnell Regis, surveying the scene before him through the
aromatic smoke of a meditative cigarette.

CHAPTER III

YOU know, the longer I live, the more I feel that the great wheeze in
life is to be jolly well sure what you want and not let yourself be put
off by pals who think they know better than you do. When I had announced
at the Drones, my last day in the metropolis, that I was retiring to
this secluded spot for an indeterminate period, practically everybody
had begged me, you might say with tears in their eyes, not to dream of
doing such a cloth-headed thing. They said I should be bored stiff. But
I had carried on according to plan, and here I was, on the fifth morning
of my visit, absolutely in the pink and with no regrets whatsoever.The
sun was shining. The sky was blue. And London seemed miles away-which it
was, of course. I wouldn't be exaggerating if I said that a great peace
enveloped the soul. A thing I never know when I'm telling a story is how
much scenery to bung in. I've asked one or two scriveners of my
acquaintance, and their views differ. A fellow I met at a cocktail party
in Bloomsbury said that he was all for

describing kitchen sinks and frowsty bedrooms and squalor generally, but
the beauties of Nature, no. Whereas, Freddie Oaker, of the Drones, who
does tales of pure love for the weeklies under the pen-name of Alicia
Seymour, once told me that he reckoned that flowery meadows in
springtime alone were worth at least a hundred quid a year to him.
Personally, I've always rather barred long descriptions of the terrain,
so I will be on the brief side. As I stood there that morning, what the
eye rested on was the following. There was a nice little splash of
garden, containing a bush, a tree, a couple of flower beds, a lily pond
with a statue of a nude child with a bit of a tummy on him, and to the
right a hedge. Across this hedge, Brinkley, my new man, was chatting
with our neighbour. Police Sergeant ' Voules, who seemed to have looked
in with a view to selling eggs. There was another hedge straight ahead,
with the garden gate in it, an dover this one espied the placid waters
of the harbour, which was much about the same as any other harbour,
except that some time during the night a whacking great yacht had rolled
up and cast anchor in it. And of all the objects under my ^nmediate
advisement I noted this yacht with l@te most pleasure and approval.
White in ?N^our, in size resembling a young liner, it lent ^iMftedded
tone to the ChuffneU Regis foreshore.

Well, such was the spreading prospect. Add a cat sniffing at a snail on
the path and me at the door smoking a gasper, and you have the complete
picture. No, I'm wrong. Not quite the complete picture, because I had
left the old two-seater in the road, and I could ]just see the top part
of it. And at this moment the summer stillness was broken by the tooting
oi its horn, and I buzzed to the gate with all possible speed for fear
some fiend in human shape was scratching my paint. Arriving at
destination, I found a small boy in the front seat, pensively squeezing
the bulb, and was about to administer one on the side of the head when I
recognized Chuffy's cousin, Seabury, and stayed the hand. " Hallo," he
said. " What ho," I replied. My manner was reserved. The memory of that
lizard in my bed still lingered. I don't know if you have ever leaped
between the sheets, all ready for a spot of sleep, and received an
unforeseen lizard up the left pyjama leg ? It is an experience that puts
its stamp on a man. And while, as I say, I had no legal proof that this
young blighter had been the author of the outrage, I entertained
suspicions that were tantamount to certainty. So now I not only spoke
with a marked coldness but also gave him the fairly frosty eye. It
didn't seem to ]ar him. He continued to

regard me with that supercilious gaze which had got him so disliked
among the right-minded. He was a smallish, freckled kid with aeroplane
ears, and he had a way of looking at you as if you were something he had
run into in the course of a slumming trip. In my Rogues Gallery of
repulsive small boys I suppose he Would come about third-not quite so
bad as my Aunt Agatha's son. Young Thos., or Mr. Blumenfeld's Junior,
but well ahead of little Sebastian Moon, my Aunt Dahlia's Bonzo, and the
field. After staring at me for a moment as if he were thinking that I
had changed for the worse since he last saw me, he spoke. ?" You're to
come to lunch." " Is Chuffy back, then ? " " Yes." Well of course, if
Chuffy had returned, I was at his disposal. I shouted over the hedge to
Brinkley that I would be absent from the midday meal and climbed into
the car and we rolled off. " When did he get back ? " " Last night." "
Shall we be lunching alone ? " " No." <K?" Who's going to be there ? " %
fl Mother and me and some people." if* A party ? I'd better go back and
put on suit."

THANK YOU, JEEVES " no." " You think this one looks all right ? " " No,
I don't. I think it looks rotten. But there isn't time." This point
settled, he passed into the silence for awhile. A brooding kid. He came
out of it to give me some local gossip. " Mother and I are living at the
Hall again." <( What! " " Yes. There's a smell at the Dower House." "
Even though you've left it ? " I said, in my keen way. He was not
amused. " You needn't try to be funny. If you really want to know, I
expect it's my mice." " Your what ? " " I've started breeding mice and
puppies. And, of course, they niff a bit," he added in a dispassionate
sort of way. " But mother thinks it's the drains. Can you give me five
shillings ? " I simply couldn't follow his train of thought. The way his
conversation flitted about gave me that feeling you get in dreams
sometimes. " Five shillings ? " " Five shillings." " What do you mean,
five shillings ? " " I mean five shillings." " I dare say. But what I
want to know is how have we suddenly got on to the subject ? We were
discussing mice, and you introduce this five shillings motif."

" I want five shillings." " Admitting that you may possibly want that
sum, why the dickens should I give it to you ? " " For protection." "
What! " " Protection." " What from ? " "Just protection." " You don't
get any five shillings out of me." " Oh, all right." He sat silent for a
space. " Things happen to guys that don't kick in their protection
money," he said dreamily. And on this note of mystery the conversation
concluded, for we were moving up the drive of the Hall and on the steps
I perceived Chuffy standing. I stopped the car and got out. " Hallo,
Bertie," said Chuffy. '   "Welcome to Chuffnell Hall," I replied. I
.^llaoked round. The kid had vanished. (< I say, lOtoffy," I said,
"young blighted Seabury. What about him ? " <( What about him ? " "
Well, if you ask me, I should say he had ae off his rocker. He's just
been trying to which me for five bob and babbling about Ejection."
j^Chuffy laughed heartily, looking bronzed and

H' Oh, that. That's his latest idea." W'Sow do you mean ? " W..i ??

" He's been seeing gangster films." The scales fell from my eyes. " He's
turned racketeer ? " " Yes. Rather amusing. He goes round collecting
protection money from everybody according to their means. Makes a good
thing out of it, too. Enterprising kid. I'd pay up if I were you. I
have." I was shocked. Not so much at the information that the foul child
had given this additional evidence of a diseased mind as that Chuffy
should be exhibiting this attitude of amused tolerance. I eyed him
keenly. Right from the start this morning I had thought his manner
strange. Usually, when you meet him, he is brooding over his financial
situation and is rather apt to greet you with the lack-lustre eye and
the careworn frown. He had been like that five days ago in London. What,
then, had caused him to beam all over the place like this and even to go
so far as to speak of little Seabury with what amounted to something
perilously near to indulgent affection ? I sensed a mystery and decided
to apply the acid test. " How is your Aunt Myrtle ? " " She's fine." "
Living at the Hall now, I hear." " Yes." " Indefinitely ? " " Oh, yes."
It was enough.

One of the things, I must mention, which have always made poor old
Chuffy's lot so hard is his aunt's attitude toward him. She has never
quite been able to get over that matter of the succession. Seabury, you
see, was not the son of Chuffy's late uncle, the fourth Baron : he was
simply something Lady Chuffnell had picked up enroute in the course of
a former marriage and, consequently, did not come under the head of what
the Peerage calls " issue." And, in matters of succession, if you aren't
issue, you haven't a hope. When the fourth Baron pegged out,
accordingly, it was Chuffy who copped the title and estates. All
perfectly square and aboveboard, of course, but you can't get women to
see these things, and the relict's manner, Chuffy has often told me, was
consistently unpleasant. She had a way of clasping Seabury in her arms
and looking reproachfully at ^JChuffy as if he had slipped over a fast
one on ?Bother and child. Nothing actually said, you jaoderstand, but
her whole attitude that of a Woman who considers she has been the victim
,fS, sharp practice. The result of this had been that the Dowager dy
Chuffnell was not one of Chuffy's best-red buddies. Their relations had
always been Eiaitely strained, and what I'm driving at is tt usually,
when you mention her name, a look l comes into Chuffy's clean-cut face
and he ?a little, as if you had probed an old wound.

Now he was actually smiling. Even that remark of mine about her living
at the Hall had not j arred him. Obviously, there were mysteries here.
Something was being kept from Bertram. I tackled him squarely. "
Chuffy," I said, " what does this mean ? " " What does what mean ? " <(
This bally cheeriness. You can't deceive me. Not old Hawk-Eye Wooster.
Come clean, my lad, something is up. What is all the ruddy happiness
about ? " He hesitated. For a moment he eyed me narrowly. " Can you keep
a secret ? " " No." " Well, it doesn't much matter, because it'll be in
the Morning Post in a day or two. Bertie," said Chuffy, in a hushed
voice, " do you know what's happened ? I'm getting Aunt Myrtle off this
season." " You mean somebody wants to marry her ? " " I do." " Who is
this half-wit ? " " Your old friend. Sir Roderick Glossop." I was
stupefied. " What! " " I was surprised, too." " But old Glossop can't be
contemplating matrimony." " Why not ? He's been a widower more than two
years."

" Oh, I dare say it's possible to make up some kind of a story for him.
But what I mean is, he doesn't seem to go with orange blossoms and
wedding cake." " Well, there it is." " Well, I'm dashed I " " Yes." "
Well, there's one thing, Chuffy, old man. This means that little Seabury
will be getting a really testing stepfather and old Glossop just the
stepson I could have wished him. Both have been asking for something on
these lines for years. But fancy any woman being mad enough to link her
lot with his. Our Humble Heroines I " " I wouldn't say the heroism was
all on one side. About fifty-fifty, I should call it. There is lots of
good in this Glossop, Bertie." I could not accept this. It seemed to me
loose thinking. " Aren't you going a bit far, old man ? Admitted that he
is taking your Aunt Myrtle off your hands ..." "And Seabury." " And
Seabury, true. But, even so, would you really say there was good in the
old pest ? Remember all the stories I've told you about him from time to
time. They show him in a ,'very dubious light." " Well, he's doing me a
bit of good, anyway. ^&o you know what it was he wanted to see me 4dbout
so urgently that day in London ? "

" What ? " " He's found an American he thinks he can sell the Hall to."
" Not really ? " " Yes. If all goes well, I shall at last get rid of
this blasted barracks and have a bit of money in my pocket. And all the
credit will be due to Uncle Roderick, as I like to think of him. So you
will kindly refrain, Bertie, from nasty cracks at his expense and, in
particular, from mentioning him in the same breath with young Seabury.
You must learn to love Uncle Roddie for my sake." I shook my head. " No,
Chuff y, I fear I cannot recede from my position." " Well, go to hell,
then," said Chuffy agreeably. "Personally, I regard him as a lifesaver."
" But are you sure this thing is going to come off ? What would this
fellow want with a place the size of the Hall ? " " Oh, that part of it
is simple enough. He's a great pal of old Glossop's and the idea is that
he shall put up the cash and let Glossop run the house as a sort of
country club for his nerve patients." " Why doesn't old Glossop simply
rent it from you ? " " My dear ass, what sort of state do you suppose
the place is in these days ? You

talk as if you could open it and step straight into it. Most of the
rooms haven't been used for forty years. It wants at least fifteen
thousandquid spent on it, to put it in repair. More. Besides new
furniture, fittings and so on. If some millionaire like this chap
doesn't take it on, I shall have it on my hands the rest of my life." "
Oh, he's a millionaire, is he ? " " Yes, that part of it is all right.
All I'm worrying about is getting his signature on the dotted line.
Well, he's coming to lunch today, and it's going to be a good one too.
He's apt to soften up a good bit after a fat lunch, isn't       j| he ?
"                                               ' " Unless he's got
dyspepsia. Many American millionaires have. This man of yours may be one
of those fellows who can't get outside more than a glass of milk and a
dog biscuit." Chuffy laughed jovially. "Not much. Not old Stoker." He
suddenly began to leap about like a lamb in the springtime.
"Hullo-ullo-ullo I " A car had drawn up at the steps and was discharging
passengers. Passenger A. was J. Washburn Stoker. PassengerB. was his
daughter, Pauline. Passenger C. was his young son, Dwight. And Passenger
D. was Sir Roderick Glossop.

CHAPTER IV

ANNOYING   PREDICAMENT   OF PAULINE   STOKER

I MUST say I was pretty well a-twitter. It was about as juicy a biff as
I had had for years. To have encountered this segment of the dead past
in London would have been bad enough. Running into the gang down here
like this, with the prospect of a lengthy luncheon party ahead, was a
dashed sight worse. I removed the lid with as much courtly grace as I
could muster up, but the face had coloured with embarrassment and I was
more or less gasping for air. Chuffy was being the genial host. "
Hullo-ullo-ullo I Here you all are. How are you, Mr. Stoker ? How are
you. Sir Roderick ? Hullo, Dwight. Er-good mom-ing, Miss Stoker. May I
introduce my friend, Bertie Wooster ? Mr. Stoker, my friend, Bertie
Wooster. Dwight, my friend, Bertie Wooster. Miss Stoker, my friend,
Bertie Wooster. Sir Roderick Glossop, my friend, Bertie. . . . Oh, but
you know each other already, don't you ? " I was still under the ether.
You will agree that all this was enough to rattle any chap. I surveyed
the mob. Old Stoker was glaring

at me. Old Glossop was glaring at me. Young Dwight was staring at me.
Only Pauline appeared to find no awkwardness in the situation. She was
as cool as an oyster on the half-shell and as chirpy as a spring breeze.
We might have been meeting by appointment. Where Bertram could find only
a tentative " Pip-pip!" she bounded forward, full of speech, and grabbed
the old hand warmly. " Well, well, well! Old Colonel Wooster in person!
Fancy finding you here, Bertie! I called you up in London, but they told
me you had left." " Yes. I came down here." " I see you did, you little
blob of sunshine. Well, sir, this has certainly made my day. You're
looking fine, Bertie. Don't you think he's looking lovely, father ? "
Old Stoker appeared reluctant to set himself up as a judge of male
beauty. He made a noise like a pig swallowing half a cabbage, but
refused to commit himself further. Dwight, a solemn child, was drinking
me in in silence.  Sir Roderick, who had turned purple, was now fading
away to a lighter shade, but still looked as if his finer feelings had
sustained a considerable wallop. At this moment, however, the Dowager
Lady Chuffnell came out. She was one of those powerful women who look
like female Masters of Hounds, and she handled the mob scene with
?|

quiet efficiency. Before I knew where I was, the whole gang had gone
indoors, and I was alone with Chuffy. He was staring at me in an odd
manner and doing a bit of lower-lip biting. " I didn't know you knew
these people, Bertie." " I met them in New York." " You saw something of
Miss Stoker there ? " " A little." " Only a little ? " " Quite a
little." " I thought her manner seemed rather warm." " Oh, no. About
normal." " I should have imagined you were great friends." " Oh, no.
Just fairly pally. She goes on like that with everyone." " She does ? "
" Oh, yes. Big-hearted, you see." " She has got a delightful, impulsive,
generous, spontaneous, genuine nature, hasn't she ? " " Absolutely." "
Beautiful girl, Bertie." " Oh, very." " And charming." " Oh, most." " In
fact, attractive." " Oh, quite." " I saw a good deal of her in London."
" Yes ? " " We went to the Zoo and Madame Tussaud's together."

" I see. And what does she seem to feel about this buying the house
hinge ? " " She seems all for it." " Tell me, laddie," I said, anxious
to get off the current sub]'., " how do the prospects look ? " He
knitted the Chuffnell brow. " Sometimes good. Sometimes not." " I see."
" Uncertain." " I understand." " This Stoker chap makes me nervous. He's
friendly enough as a general rule, but I can't help feeling that at any
moment he may fly off the handle and scratch the entire fixture. You
can't tell me if there are any special subjects to avoid when talking to
him, can you ? " " Special subjects ? " " Well, you know how it is with
a stranger. You say it's a fine day, and he goes all white ' and tense,
because you've reminded him that it was on a fine day that his wife
eloped with the chauffeur." I considered. " Well, if I were you," I
said, " I wouldn't harp too much on the topic of B. Wooster. I mean, if
you were thinking of singing my praises ..." " I wasn't." " Well, don't.
He doesn't like me." " Why not ? "

" Just one of these unreasonable antipathies. And I was thinking, old
man, if it's all the same to you, it might be better if I didn't join
the throng at the luncheon table. You can tell your aunt I've got a
headache." " Well, if the sight of you is going to infuriate him. . . .
What makes him bar you so much ? " " I don't know." " Well, I'm glad you
told me. You had better sneak off." " I will." " And I suppose I ought
to be joining the others." He went indoors, and I started to take a turn
or two up and down the gravel. I was glad to be alone. I wished to muse
upon this matter of his attitude towards Pauline Stoker. I wonder if you
would mind just going back a bit and running the mental eye over that
part of our conversation which had had to do with the girl. Anything
strike you about it ? No? Oh, well, to get the full significance, of
course, you ought to have been there and observed him. I am a man who
can read faces, and Chuffy's had seemed to me highly suggestive. Not
only had its expression, as he spoke of Pauline, been that of a stuffed
frog with a touch of the Soul's Awakening about it, but it had also
turned a fairly deepish crimson in

colour. The tip of the nose had wiggled, and (here had been
embarrassment in the manner. The result being that I had become firmly
convinced that the old schoolmate had copped it properly. Quick work, of
course, seeing that he had only known the adored object a few days, but
Chuffy is like that. A man of impulse and hot-blooded impetuosity. You
find the girl, and he does the rest. y '   Well, if it was so, it was
all right with me.        fl Nothing of the dog in the manger about
Bertram. As far as I was concerned, Pauline Stoker could hitch up with
anyone she liked and she would draw a hearty "Go to it! " from the
discarded suitor. You know how it is on quiet reflection in these
affairs. For a time the broken heart, and then suddenly the healing
conviction that one is jolly well out of it. I could still see that
Pauline was one of the most beautiful girls I had ever met, but of the
ancient fire which had caused me to bung my heart at her feet       J
that night at the Plaza there remained not a       lj trace. Analysing
this, if analysing is the word I want, I came to the conclusion that
this changed outlook was due to the fact that she was so dashed dynamic.
Unquestionably an eyeful, ^Pauline Stoker had the grave defect of being
one of those girls who want you to come and ?^wim a mile before
breakfast and rout you out s'S^lAto you are trying to snatch a wink of
sleep ^^ i                                            "      - ?

after lunch for a merry five sets of tennis. And now that the scales had
fallen from my eyes, I could see that what I required for the role of
Mrs. Bertram Wooster was something rather more on the lines of Janet
Gaynor. But in Chuff y's case these objections fell to the ground. He,
you see, is very much on the dynamic side himself. He rides, swims,
shoots, chivvies foxes with loud cries, and generally bustles about. He
and this P. Stoker would make the perfect pair, and I felt that if there
was anything I could do to push the thing along, it should be done
unstintedly. So when at this point I saw Pauline coming out of the house
and bearing down on me, obviously with a view to exchanging notes and
picking up the old threads and what not, I did not leg it but greeted
her with a bright " What ho I " and allowed her to steer me into the
shelter of a path that led through the rhododendron shrubbery. All of
which goes to show to what lengths a Wooster will proceed when it is a
question of helping a pal, because the last thing I really wanted was to
be closeted with this girl. The first shock of meeting her was over, but
I was still feeling far from yeasty at the prospect of a heart-to-heart
talk. As our relations had been severed by post and the last time we had
forgatheredwe had been an engaged couple, I wasn't quite sure what was
the correct note to strike.

However, the thought that I might be able to put in a word for old
Chuffy nerved me to the ordeal, and we parked ourselves on a rustic
fcench and got down to the agenda. " How perfectly extraordinary finding
you ^  here, Bertie," she began. " What are you | "- doing in these
parts ? " I     "I am temporarily in retirement," I replied, $  pleased
to find the conversational exchanges *   opening on what I might call an
unemotional note. " I needed a place where I could play the banjolele in
solitude, and I took this cottage." " What cottage ? " " I've got a
cottage down by the harbour." " You must have been surprised to see us."
" I was." ^     " More surprised than pleased, eh ? " s     " Well, of
course, old thing, I'm always delighted to meet you, but when it comes
to your father and old Glossop ..." f"    " He's not one of your
greatest admirers, is ?he ? By the way, Bertie, do you keep cats in
your bedroom ? " I stiffened a little. " There have been cats in my
bedroom, but (he incident to which you allude is one that is ^asceptible
of a ready . . ." " All right. Never mind. Take it as read. tet you
ought to have seen father's face when ^ heard about it. Talking of
father's face, should get a big laugh if I saw it now."

I could not follow this. Goodness knows, I'm as fond of a chuckle as the
next man, but J. Washburn Stoker's face had never made me so much as
smile. He was a cove who always reminded me of a pirate of the Spanish
Main- a massive blighter and piercing-eyed, to boot. So far from
laughing at the sight of him, I had never yet failed to feel absolutely
spineless in his presence. "If he suddenly came round the corner, I
mean, and found us with our heads together like this. He's convinced
that I'm still pining for you." " You don't mean that ? " " I do,
honestly." " But, dash it . . ." " It's true, I tell you. He looks on
himself as the stem Victorian father who has parted the young lovers and
has got to exercise ceaseless vigilance to keep them from getting
together again. Little knowing that you never had a happier moment in
your life than when you got my letter." " No, I say I " " Bertie, be
honest. You know you were delighted." " I wouldn't say that." " You
don't have to. Mother knows." " No, dash it, really I I wish you
wouldn't talk like that. I always esteemed you most highly."

" You did what ? Where do you pick up these expressions ? " " Well, I
suppose from Jeeves, mostly. My late man. He had a fine vocabulary." "
When you say (late,' do you mean he's dead ? Or just unpunctual ? " "
He's left me. He didn't like me playing the banjolele. Words passed, and
he is now with Chuffy." " Chuffy ?" " Lord ChuffneU." " Oh ? " There was
a pause. She sat listening for a moment to a couple of birds who were
having an argument in a near-by tree. " Have you known Lord ChuffneU
long ? " she asked. " Oh, rather." " You're great friends ? " " Bosom is
the mot juste." " Good. I hoped you were. I wanted to talk to you about
him. I can confide in you, can't I, Bertie ? " " Of course." " I knew I
could.  That's the comfort of having been engaged to a man. When you
break it off, you feel such a sister." *' I don't regard you as a
blister at all," I said warmly.   " You had a perfect light . . ." " Not
blister. Sister I "

" Oh, sister ? You mean, you look on me as a brother." " Yes, as a
brother. How quick you are. And I want you to be very brotherly now.
Tell me about Marmaduke." " I don't think I know him." " Lord Chuffnell,
idiot." " Is his name Marmaduke ? Well, well! How true it is that one
doesn't know how the other half of the world lives, what ? Marmaduke! "
I said, laughing heartily. " I remember he was always evasive and
secretive about it at school." She seemed annoyed. " It's a beautiful
name I " I shot one of my swift, keen glances at her. This, I felt, must
mean something. Nobody would say Marmaduke was a beautiful name wantonly
and without good reason. And, sure enough, the eyes were gleaming and
the epidermis a pretty pink. " Hullo! " I said." Hullo,hullo, hullo!
Hullo!" Her demeanour was defiant. " All right, all right! " she said. "
Less of the Sherlock stuff. I'm not trying to hide anything. I was just
going to tell you." " You love this . . . ha, ha I Excuse me . . . this
Marmaduke ? " "I'm crazy about him." " Good I Well, if what you say . .
." " Don't you worship the way his hair fluffs up behind ? "

" I have better things to do than go about staring at the back of
Chuffy's head. But, as I was about to remark, if what you say is feally
so, be prepared for tidings of great joy. I'm a pretty close observer,
and a certain bulbous look in the old boy's eyes when a recent
conversation happened to turn in your direction has convinced me that he
is deeply enamoured of you." She wiggled her shoulder impatiently, and
in a rather peevish manner hoofed a passing earwig with a shapely foot.
" I know that, you chump. Do you think a girl can't tell ? " I was
frankly nonplussed. " Well, if he loves you and you love him, I fail to
comprehend what you are beefing about." " Why, can't you understand ?
He's obviously dippy about me, but not a yip from him." " He will not
speak ? " " Not a syllable." " Well, why would he ? Surely you realise
that there is a certain decency in these matters, a certain decorum ?
Naturally he wouldn't say anything yet. Dash it, give the man a chance.
He's only known you five days." " I sometimes feel that he was a king in
Babylon when I was a Christian slave." " What makes you think that ? " "
I just do."

" Well, you know best, of course. Very doubtful, I should have said
myself. And, anyway, what do you want me to do about it?" " Well, you're
a friend of his. You could give him a hint. You could tell him there's
no need for cold feet. ..." " It is not cold feet. It is delicacy. As I
just explained, we men have our code in these matters. We may fall in
love pretty nippily, but after that we consider it decorous to
backpedalawhile. We are the parfait gentle knights, and we feel that it
ill beseems us to make a beeline for a girl like a man charging into a
railway restaurant for a bowl of soup. We . . ." " What utter nonsense I
You asked me to marry you after you had known me two weeks." " Ah, but
there you were dealing with one of the Wild Woosters." " Well, I can't
see . . ." " Yes ? " I said. " Proceed. You have our ear." But she was
looking past me at something to the south-east; and, turning, I
perceived that we were no longer alone. There, standing in an attitude
of respectful courtliness, with the sunshine playing upon his finely
chiselled features, was Jeeves.

CHAPTER V

BERTIE TAKES THINGS IN HAND

I NODDED affably. This man and I might have severed our professional
relations, but a Wooster is always debonair. "Ah, Jeeves." " Good
afternoon, sir." Pauline appeared interested. " Is this Jeeves ? " "
This is Jeeves." " No, miss." I preferred that this delicate matter be
not discussed, and it may be, in consequence, that I spoke a little
curtly. " Well, Jeeves ? What is it ? " " Mr. Stoker, sir. He is
inquiring after Miss Stoker's whereabouts." Well, of course, there's
always that old one about them being at the wash, but this seemed to me
neither the time nor the place. I turned to the girl with an air of
courteous dismissal. " You'd better push along." " I suppose so. You
won't forget what I said?"

" The matter," I assured her, " shall have my prompt attention." She
legged it, and Jeeves and I were alone together in the great solitude. I
lit a cigarette nonchalantly. " Well, Jeeves." " Sir ? " " I mean to
say, we meet again." " Yes, sir." " Philippi, what ? " " Yes, sir." *' I
hope you're getting on all right with Chuffy ? " " Everything is most
pleasant, sir. I trust your new personal attendant is giving
satisfaction ? " " Oh, quite. A sterling fellow." " I am extremely
gratified to hear it, sir." There was a pause. " Er, Jeeves," I said. A
rummy thing. It had been my intention, after exchanging these few
civilities, to nod carelessly and leave the fellow. But it's so dashed
difficult to break the habit of years. I mean to say, here was I and
here was Jeeves, and a problem bad been put up to me of just the type
concerning which I had always been wont to seek his advice and counsel,
and now something seemed to keep me rooted to the spot. And instead of
being aloof and distant and passing on with the slight inclination of
the head which, as I say, I had been planning,

I found myself irresistibly impelled to consult 1pm just as if there had
been no rift at all. "Er-Jeeves," I said. " Sir ? " " I should rather
like, if you have a moment to spare, to split a word with you." "
Certainly, sir." " I wish to canvass your views regarding old Chuffy." "
Very good, sir." His face was wearing that expression of quiet
intelligence combined with a feudal desire to oblige which I had so
often seen upon it, and I hesitated no longer. " You will agree with me
that something's got to be done about the fifth Baron, I take it ? " " I
beg your pardon, sir ? " I was impatient with this-what the dickens | is
the word I want ? " Come, come, Jeeves. You know what I mean as well as
I do. A little less coyness and a bit more of the old rallying round
spirit. You can't tell me you've been in his employment for nearly a
week without observing and deducing and forming your conclusions." " Am
I correct in supposing, sir, that you are alluding to his lordship's
feelings towards Miss Stoker ? " " Exactly." " I am, of course, aware
that his lordship is experiencing for the young lady a sentiment

deeper and warmer than that of ordinary friendship, sir." " Would I be
going too far if I said that he was potty about her ? " " No, sir. The
expression would meet the facts of the case quite adequately." " Very
well, then. Now, mark this. She, too, loves, Jeeves." " Indeed, sir ? "
" She was telling me so specifically when you came along. She confessed
herself dippy about the man. And she's very upset, poor fish. Extremely
upset. Her feminine intuition has enabled her to read his secret. She
detects the lovelight in his eyes. And she is all for it. And what is
worrying her is that he does not tell his love, but lets concealment
like . . . like what, Jeeves ? " " A worm i' the bud, sir." " Feed on
his something ..." " Damask cheek, sir." " Damask ? You're sure ? " "
Quite sure, sir." " Well, then, what on earth is it all about ? He loves
her. She loves him. So what's the snag ? In conversing with her just
now, I advanced the theory that what was holding him back was delicacy,
but I didn't really believe it.   I know Chuffy.  A swift performer, if
ever there was one. If he didn't propose to a girl by the end of the
first week, he

would think he was losing his grip. Yet now Hook at him.  Missing on
every cylinder. yby?" " His lordship is a gentleman of scruples, sir." "
How do you mean ? " " He feels that, being of straitened means himself,
he has not the right to propose marriage to a young lady as wealthy as
Miss Stoker." " But, dash it. Love laughs at ... no, it doesn't . . .
it's at locksmiths, isn't it ? " " At locksmiths, yes, sir." " Besides,
she isn't as rich as all that. Just comfortably off, I should have
said." " No, sir. Mr. Stoker's fortune amounts to as much as fifty
million dollars." " What! You're talking through your hat, Jeeves." "
No, sir. I understand that that was the sum which he inherited recently
under the will of the late Mr. George Stoker."                       ^ I
was stunned. " Good Lord, Jeeves! Has Second Cousin George kicked the
bucket ? " " Yes, sir." " And left all his money to old Stoker ? " "
Yes, sir." " Now I see. Now I understand-- This explains everything. I
was wondering how he managed to be going about buying vast estates. That
yacht in the harbour is his, of course ?" " Yes, sir."

" Well, well, well! But, dash it, George must have had nearer
relations." " Yes, sir. I understand that he disliked them all." " You
know about him, then ? " " Yes, sir. I saw a good deal of his personal
attendant when we were in New York. A man named Benstead." " He was
potty, wasn't he ? " " Certainly extremely eccentric, sir." " Any chance
of one of those other relations contesting the will ? " " I do not
imagine so, sir. But in such a case Mr. Stoker would rely on Sir
Roderick Glossop, of course, to testify that the late Mr. Stoker, while
possibly somewhat individual in his habits, was nevertheless perfectly
sane. The testimony of so eminent a mental specialist as Sir Roderick
would be unassailable." " You mean he'd say why shouldn't a fellow walk
about on his hands, if he wants to ? Saves shoe leather, and so forth ?
" "Exactly, sir." " Then there's no chance of Miss Stoker ever being
anything except the heiress of a bird with fifty million dollars shoved
away behind the brick in the fire-place ? " " Virtually none, sir." I
brooded on this. " H'm. And unless old Stoker buys the Hall, Chuffy will
continue to be Kid Lazarus,

BERTIE TAKES THINGS IN HAND 6l ; tfae man without a bean. One spots the
drama fc, ,of the situation. And yet, why, Jeeves ? Why |S |dl this fuss
about money ? After all, plenty of it > bust blokes have married oofy
girls before now," ^   " Yes, sir. But his lordship is a gentleman ?<-.
of peculiar views on this particular matter." I mused. Yes, I reflected,
it was quite true. 'f Chuffy is a fellow who has always been odd on ?
the subject of money. It's something to do with the Pride of the
Chuffhells, I suppose. I know that for years and years I have been
trying to lend him of my plenty, but he has always steadfastly refused
to put the bite on me. " It's difficult," I said. " One fails for the
moment to see the way out. And yet you may be wrong, Jeeves. After all,
you're only guessing." " No, sir. His lordship did me the honour to
confide in me." " Really ? How did the subject come up ? " " Mr. Stoker
had expressed a wish that I should enter his employment. He approached
me in the matter. I informed his lordship. His lordship instructed me to
hold out hopes." " You can't mean that he wants you to leave him and go
to old Stoker ? " " No, sir. He specifically stated the reverse, v/ith a
good deal of vehemence. But he was anxious that I should not break off
the negotiations with a definite refusal until the sale of Cliuffnell
Hall had gone through."

" I see. I follow his strategy. He wanted you to jolly old Stoker along
and keep him sweetened till he had signed the fatal papers ? " "
Precisely, sir. It was this conversation that led up to his lordship
revealing his personal position as concerns Miss Stoker. Until his
financial status is sufficiently sound to justify him in doing so, his
self-respect will not permit him to propose marriage to the young lady."
" Silly ass I " " I would not have ventured to employ preciselythat term
myself, sir, but I confess that I regard his lordship's attitude as
somewhat hyper-quixotic." " We must talk him out of it." " Impossible,
sir, I fear. I endeavoured to do so myself, but my arguments were of no
avail. His lordship has a complex." " A what ? " " A complex, sir. It
seems that he once witnessed a musical comedy, in which one of the
dramatis personae was a certain impecunious peer. Lord Wotwotleigh, who
was endeavouring to marry an American heiress, and this
individualappears to have made a lasting impression on his mind. He
stated to me in the most unequivocal terms that he refused to place
himselfin a position where comparisons might be instituted." " But
suppose the sale of the house does not go through ? "

" In that case, I fear, sir . . ." " The damask cheek will continue to
do businessat the old stand indefinitely ? " "Exactly, sir." " You
really are sure it is ' damask ' ? " " Yes, sir." " But it doesn't seem
to mean anything." " An archaic adjective, sir. I fancy it is intended
to signify a healthy complexion." " Well, Chuffy's got that." , " Yes,
sir." " But what good's a healthy complexion if you don't get the girl ?
" " Very true, sir." " What would you advise, Jeeves ? " " I fear I have
nothing to suggest at the moment, sir." " Come, come, Jeeves." " No,
sir. The difficulty being essentially a psychological one, I find myself
somewhat baffled. As long as the image of Lord Wotwotleigh persists in
his lordship's consciousness, I fear that there is nothing to be done."
" Of course there is. Why this strange weakness, Jeeves ? It is not like
you. Obviously,the fellow must be shoved over the brink." " I do not
quite follow you, sir." " Of course you do. The thing's perfectly dear.
Here's old Chuffy, for the nonce just hanging dumbly round the girl.
What he needs

is a jolt. If he thought there was grave danger of some other bloke
scooping her up, wouldn't that make him forget these dashed silly ideas
of his and charge in, breathing fire through the nostrils ? " " Jealousy
is undoubtedly an extremely powerful motivating force, sir." " Do you
know what I am going to do, Jeeves ? " " No, sir." " I am going to kiss
Miss Stoker and take care that Chuffy sees me do it." " Really, sir, I
should not advocate ..." " Peace, Jeeves. I have got the whole thing
taped out. It came to me in a flash, as we were talking. After lunch, I
shall draw Miss Stoker aside to this seat. You will arrange that Chuffy
follows her. Waiting till I see the whites of his eyes, I shall fold her
in a close embrace. If that doesn't work, nothing will." " I consider
that you would be taking a decided risk, sir. His lordship is in a
highly emotional condition." " Well, a Wooster can put up with a punch
in the eye for the sake of a pal. No, Jeeves, I desire no further
discussion. The thing is settled. All that remains is to fix the times.
I suppose lunch would be over by about two-thirty. . . . Incidentally,
I'm not going in to lunch myself." " No, sir ? "

" No. I cannot face that gang. I shall ^' remain out here. Bring me some
sandwiches / ^?d a half-hot of the best." " Very good, sir." I, "And, by
the way, the French windows of '^e dining-room will be open in weather
like Hhis. Sneak near them from time to time Mooring lunch and bend an
ear. Something of y Importance might be said." ||f|^  " Very good, sir."
' ^   " Put plenty of mustard on the sandwiches." " Very good, sir." "
And at two-thirty inform Miss Stoker that I would like a word with her.
And at two-tfairty-one inform Lord Chuffnell that she would Uke a word
with him. The rest you can leave ? me." " Very good, sir."

CHAPTER VI

COMPLICATIONS   SET   IN

THERE was a fairly longish interval beforeJeeves returned with the
foodstuffs.I threw myself on them with some abandon. " You've been the
dickens of a time." " I followed your instructions, sir, and listened at
the dining-room window." " Oh ? With what result ? " " I was not able to
hear anything that gave an indication of Mr. Stoker's views regarding
the purchase of the house, but he appeared in affable mood." " That's
promising. Full of sparkle, eh ? " " Yes, sir. He was inviting all those
present to a party on his yacht." " He's staying on here, then ? " " For
some little time, I gathered, sir. Apparentlysomething has gone wrong
with the propeller of the vessel." " He probably gave it one of his
looks. And this party ? " " It appears that it is Master Dwight Stoker's
birthday to-morrow, sir. The party, I gathered, was to be in celebration
of the event." And was the suggestion well received ? " Extremely, sir.
Though Master Seabury ired to experience a certain chagrin at ;r
Dwight's somewhat arrogant assertion he betted this was the first time
that Seabury had ever so much as smelled a

What did he say ? " He retorted that he had been on millions yachts.
Indeed, if I am not mistaken, trillions was the word he employed." " And
then ? " " From a peculiar noise which he made with if I Ais mouth, I
received the impression that Master ,- |3wight was sceptical concerning
this claim. r.iV^ttt at this moment Mr. Stoker threw oil upon little
troubled waters by announcing his intention h'^S fairing the troupe of
negro minstrels to perform l "Sit the party. It appears that his
lordship had I^^Nktioned their presence in Chuffnell Regis." And that
went well ? " yM'" ^^ well* indeed, sir. Except that Master i^lbury said
that he betted Master Dwight had |yer heard negro minstrels before. From
a lark passed shortly afterwards by her lady-It, I gathered that Master
Dwight had then &wn a potato at Master Seabury; and for lile a certain
unpleasantness seemed to ten." licked my tongue. -'-."Wish somebody
would muzzle those kids

and chain them up. They'll queer the whole thing." " The imbroglio was
fortunately short-lived, sir. I left the whole company on what appeared
to be the most amicable terms. Master Dwight protested that his hand had
slipped, and the apology was gracefully received." " Well, bustle back
and see if you can hear some more." " Very good, sir." I finished my
sandwiches and half-hot, and lit a cigarette, wishing that I had told
Jeeves to bring me some coffee. But you don't have to tell Jeeves things
like that. In due course, up he rolled with the steaming cupful. "
Luncheon has just concluded, sir." " Ah I Did you see Miss Stoker ? " "
Yes, sir. I informed her that you desired a word with her, and she will
be here shortly." " Why not now ? " " His lordship engaged her in
conversation immediately after I had given her your message." " Had you
told him to come here, too ? " " Yes, sir." " No good, Jeeves. I see a
flaw. They will arrive together." " No, sir. On observing his lordship
making in this direction, I can easily detain him for a moment on some
matter." " Such as--? " " I have long been desirous of canvassing

ftAiS lordship's views as to the desirability of U'ifiy.rc'h.a.sing some
new socks." " H'm I You know what you are when you it on to the subject
of socks, Jeeves. Don't pt carried away and keep him talking for an WW.
I want to get this thing over." " I quite understand, sir." i ^ I *'
When did you see Miss Stoker ? " fc 'I 1 " About a quarter of an hour
ago, sir." I1    " Funny, she doesn't turn up. I wonder W  Utrhat
they're talking about ? " I     "I could not say, sir." I     " Ah I "
;'     I had observed a gleam of white among the I  bushes. The next
moment, the girl appeared. |h. She was looking more beautiful than ever,
her f , <^es. in particuFar, shining like twin stars. w nevertheless, I
did not waver in my view that I $' i?as jolly glad it was Chuffy who, if
all went '^""KlIsH, was going to marry her, and not me. ) ^ ifiWd, how a
girl may be a perfect knock-out, and *" j^t one can still feel that to
be married to her Would give one the absolute pip. That's Life, a
Sttppose. *,   , ." Hallo, Bertie," said Pauline. " What's all * ?i||Ns
about your having a headache ? You seem It.liave been doing yourself
pretty well, in if(r) of it." j^ I found I could peck a bit. You had
better jfebese things back, Jeeves." '"'    good, sir."

" And you won't forget that, if his lordship should want me, I'm here."
" No, sir." He gathered up the plate, cup and bottle and disappeared.
And whether I was sorry to see him go or not, I couldn't have said. I
was feeling a good deal worked up. Taut, if you know what I mean. On
edge. Tense. The best idea I can give you of my emotions at this
juncture is to say that they rather resembled those I had once felt when
starting to sing " Sonny Boy" at Beefy Bingham's Church Lads
entertainment down in the East End. Pauline had grabbed my arm, and was
beginning to make some species of communication. " Bertie," she was
saying . . . But at this point I caught sight of Chuffy's head over a
shrub, and I felt that the moment had come to act. It was one of those
things that want doing quickly or not at all. I waited no longer.
Folding the girl in my arms, I got home on her right eyebrow. It wasn't
one of my best, I will admit, but it was a kiss within the meaning of
the act, and I fancied that it ought to produce results. And so, no
doubt, it would have done, had the fellow who entered left at this
critical point been Chuffy. But it wasn't. What with only being able to
catch a fleeting glimpse of a Homburg hat through the foliage, I
appeared

COMPLICATIONS SET IN   Jl to have made an unfortunate floater. The
lyloke who now stood before us was old Pop Utoker, and I confess I found
myself a prey to a certain embarrassment. It was, you must admit, not a
little awkward. "Here was an anxious father who combined With a strong
distaste for Bertram Wooster the lotion that his daughter was madly in
love with him : and the first thing he saw when he took an
after-luncheon saunter was the two of us locked in a close embrace. It
was enough to give any parent the jitters, and I was not surprised that
his demeanour was that of stout Cortez staring at the Pacific. A fellow
with fifty millions in his kick doesn't have to wear the mask. If he
wants to give any selected Noke a nasty look, he gives him a nasty look.
He was giving me one now. It was a look that ttad both alarm and anguish
in it, and I realized (at Pauline's statement regarding his views id
been accurate. Fortunately, the thing did not go beyond oks. Say what
you like against civilization, comes in dashed handy in a crisis like
this. ^ -it may be a purely artificial code that keeps a jt^jJIAher from
hoofing his daughter's kisser when are fellow guests at a house, but at
this tent I felt that I could do with all the purely aal codes that were
going. was just one instant when his foot and it seemed as if what you
might

call the primitive J. Washbum Stoker was about to find self-expression.
Then civilization prevailed. With one more of those looks he collected
Pauline, and the next moment I was alone and at liberty to think the
thing over. And it was as I was doing so with the help of a soothing
cigarette that Chuffy bounded into my little sylvan glade.  He too
appeared to have something on his mind, for he was noticeably pop-eyed.
" Look here, Bertie," he began without preamble, " what's all this I
hear ? " " What's all what you hear, old man ? " " Why didn't you tell
me you had been engaged to Pauline Stoker ? " I raised an eyebrow. It
seemed to me that a touch of the iron hand would not be out of place. If
you see a fellow's going to be austere with you. ^there's nothing like
jumping in and being austere with him first. " I fail to understand you,
Chuffnell," I said stimy. " Did you expect me to send you a post card ?
" " You could have told me this morning." " I saw no reason to do so.
How did you hear about it, anyhow ? " " Sir Roderick Glossop happened to
mention it." " Oh, he did, did he ? Well, he's an authority on the
subject. He was the bird who broke it off." " What do you mean ? "

" He happened to be in New York at the time, and it was the work of a
moment with him to tap old Stoker on the chest and urge him to give me
the push. The whole thing didn't last more than forty-eight hours from
kick-off to finish." Chuffy eyed me narrowly. " You swear that ? " "
Certainly." " Only forty-eight hours ? " " Less." " And there's nothing
between you now ? " His demeanour was not matey, and I began to perceive
that in arranging that Stoker and not he should be the witness of the
recent embrace the guardian angel of the Woosters had acted dashed
shrewdly. " Nothing." " You're sure ? " " Nothing whatever. So charge
in, Chuffy, Old man," I said, patting his shoulder in an elder-brotherly
manner. " Follow the dictates of the old heart and fear nothing. The
girl is potty about you." " Who told you that ? " " She did." " Herself
? " " In person." ;' " She does really love me ? " ,i " Passionately, I
gathered." f^f'^i 4ook of relief came into the old egg's

care-worn face. He passed a hand over the foreheadand generally relaxed.
"Well, that's all right, then. Sorry, if I appeared a bit rattled for a
moment. When a fellow's just got engaged to a girl, it's rather a jar to
find that she was engaged to somebody else about two months before." I
was astounded. " Are you engaged ? Since when ? " " Since shortly after
lunch." " But how about Wotwotleigh ? " " Who told you about Wotwotleigh
? " " Jeeves. He said the shadow of Wotwotleighbrooded over you like a
cloud." " Jeeves talks too much. As a matter of fact, Wotwotleigh didn't
enter into the matter at all. Immediately before I fixed things up with
Pauline, old Stoker told me he had decided to buy the house." " Really I
" " Absolutely. I think it was the port that did it. I lushed him up on
the last of the '85." " You couldn't have done a wiser thing. Your own
idea ? " " No. Jeeves's." I could not restrain a wistful sigh. " Jeeves
is a wonder." " A marvel." " What a brain I " " Size nine-and-a-quarter,
I should say." " He eats a lot of fish. What a pity he has

no ear for music," I said moodily. Then I stifled regret and tried to
think not of my bereavement but of Chuffy's bit of luck. " Well, this is
fine," I said heartily. " I hope you will be very, very happy. I can
honestly say that I always look on Pauline as one of the nicest girls I
was ever engaged to." " I wish you would stop harping on that
engagement." ^    " Quite." i^"    "I'm trying to forget that you ever
were W.   engaged to her." f      " Quite, quite." " When I think that
you were once in a >!'    position to . . ." ||?    " But I wasn't.
Never lose sight of the fact ^   that the betrothal only lasted two
days, during H    both of which I was in bed with a nasty cold." 1|?
" But when she accepted you, you must have . . ." " No, I didn't. A
waiter came into the room <   .with a tray of beef sandwiches and the
moment , passed." " Then you never , . . ? " " Absolutely never." j "
She must have had a great time, being "    engaged to you. One round of
excitement. I i    Wonder what on earth made her accept you ? " This had
puzzled me too, more than a little. .X can only suppose that there is
something in me ^f? ^P?t strikes a chord in the bosoms of these force-y^

ful females. I've known it happen before, on the occasion when I got
engaged to Honoria Glossop. " I once consulted a knowledgeable pal," I
said, " and his theory was that the sight of me hanging about like a
loony sheep awoke the maternal instinct in Woman. There may be something
in this." " Possibly," agreed Chuffy. " Well, I'll be getting along. I
suppose Stoker will want to talk to me about the house. You coming ? " "
No, thanks. The fact of the matter is, old man, I'm not so dashed keen
on mingling with your little troupe. I could stand your Aunt Myrtle. I
could even stand little Seabury. But add Stoker and Glossop, and the
going becomes too sticky for Bertram. I shall take a stroll about the
estate." This demesne or seat of Chuffy's was a topping place for a
stroll, and I should have thought he would have had a certain regret at
the thought that it was passing out of his hands, to become a private
loony-bin. But I suppose when you've been cooped up in a house for years
with an Aunt Myrtle and a cousin Seabury for next-door neighbours, you
lose your taste for it. I spent an agreeable two hours messing about,
and it was well along into the late afternoon when the imperative need
for a cup of tea sent me sauntering round to the back premises, where I
anticipated finding Jeeves. A scullerymaid of sorts directed me to his

quarters, and I sat down in the comfortable certainty that ere long the
steaming pot and buttered toast would be to the fore. The happy ending
of which Chuffy had recently Apprised me had induced contentment, and a
hot cup and slab of toast would, I felt, just top the thing off. "
In fact, Jeeves," I said, " even muffins would scarcely be out of place
on an occasion like this. I find it very gratifying to reflect that
Chuffy's storm-tossed soul has at last come safely into harbour. You
heard about Stoker promising to buy the house ? " " Yes, sir." " And the
engagement ? " " Yes, sir." " I suppose old Chuffy is feeling great." "
Not altogether, sir." " Eh ? " " No, sir. I regret to say that there has
been something in the nature of a hitch." " What! They can't have
quarrelled already ? " ?" No, sir. His lordship's relations with Miss
Stoker continue uniformly cordial. It is with Ml. Stoker that he is on
distant terms." " Oh, my God I " " Yes, sir." " What happened ? " " The
origin of the trouble was a physical H&efttest between Master Dwight
Stoker and

Master Seabury, sir. You may recollect my mentioning that during
luncheon there appeared to be a lack of perfect sympathy between the
young gentlemen." " But you said--" " Yes, sir. Matters were smoothed
over at the time, but they came to a head again some forty minutes after
the conclusion of the meal. The young gentlemen had gone off together to
the small morning-room, and there, it appears, Master Seabury
endeavoured to exact from Master Dwight the sum of one shilling and
sixpence for what he termed protection." " Oh, golly I " " Yes, sir.
Master Dwight, I gathered, declinedin a somewhat high-spirited manner to
kick in, as I believe the expression is, and one word led to another,
with the result that at about three-thirty sounds indicative of a brawl
were heard proceeding from the morning-room, and the senior members of
the party, repairing thither, discovered the young gentlemen on the
floor, surrounded by the debris of a china cabinet which they had
overturned in their struggle. At the moment of their arrival, Master
Dwight appeared to be having somewhat the better of the exchanges, for
he was seated on Master Seabury's chest, bumping his head on the
carpet." It will give you some idea of the grave concern which this
narrative was occasioning

me, when I say that my emotion on hearing this was not a sober ecstasy
at the thought that after all these long years somebody had at last been
treating little Seabury's head as it ought to be treated, but a
sickening dismay. I could see whither all this was tending. " Gosh,
Jeeves I;) " Yes, sir." " And then ? " " The action then became, as it
were, general, sir." " The old brigade lent a hand ? " " Yes, sir, the
initiative being taken by Lady Chuff nell." I moaned. " It would be,
Jeeves. Chuffy has often told me that her attitude towards Seabury
resembles that of a tigress towards its cub. In Seabury's interests she
has always been inclined to stamp qn the world's toes and give it the
elbow. I Ibave heard Chuffy's voice absolutely quiver when describing
the way in which, in the days before fee contrived to shoot them off to
the Dower House and they were still living at the Hall, She always
collared the best egg at breakfast and slipped it to the little one. But
go on." " On witnessing the position of affairs, her 'tedyship uttered a
sharp cry and struck Master    J&wight with considerable force on the
right ear." " Upon which, of course . . . ? "

" Precisely, sir. Mr. Stoker, espousing the cause of his son, aimed a
powerful kick at Master Seabury." " And got him, Jeeves ? Tell me he got
him." " Yes, sir. Master Seabury was rising at the moment, and his
attitude was exceptionally well adapted for the receipt of such an
attack. The next moment, a heated altercation had broken out between her
ladyship and Mr. Stoker. Her ladyship called to Sir Roderick for
support, and he-somewhat reluctantly, it appeared to me-proceeded to
take Mr. Stoker to task for the assault. High words ensued, and the
upshot of it was that Mr. Stoker with a good deal of warmth informed Sir
Roderick that it he supposed that he, Mr. Stoker, intended to purchase
Chuffnell Hall after what had occurred, he, Sir Roderick, was in grave
error." I buried the head in the hands. " Upon this . . ." " Yes, get it
over, Jeeves. I can see what's coming." " Yes, sir. I agree with you
that the whole affair has something of the dark inevitability of Greek
tragedy. Upon this, his lordship, who had been an agitated auditor, gave
vent tp a startled exclamation and urged Mr. Stoker to disclaim these
words. It was his lordship's view that Mr. Stoker, having given his
promise to purchase Chuffnell Hall, could not, as an

COMPLICATIONS SET IN   8l honourable man, recede from this obligation.
Upon Mr. Stoker replying that he did not care what he had promised or
what he had not promised and continuing to asseverate that not a penny
of his money should be expended in the direction indicated, his
lordship, I regret to say, became somewhat unguarded in his speech." I
moaned another bar or two. I knew what old Chuffy was capable of when
his generous nature was stirred. I had heard him coaching his college
boat at Oxford. " He ticked Stoker off ? " " With considerable vigour,
sir. Stating in an extremely candid manner his opinion of the latter's
character, commercial probity, and even appearance." " That must have
put the lid on it." " It did appear to create a certain coldness, sir."
" And then ? " " That terminated the distressing scene, sir. Mr. Stoker
returned to the yacht with Miss Stoker and Master Dwight. Sir Roderick
has gone to secure accommodation for himself at the local inn. Lady
Chuff nell is applying arnica to Master Seabury in his bedroom. His
lordship, I believe, is taking the dog for a run in the west park." I
mused. "When all this happened, had Chuffy told Stoker he wanted to
marry Miss Stoker ? " F

" No, sir." " Well, I don't see how he can very well do it now." " I
fancy the announcement would not be cordially received, sir." " They
will have to meet by stealth." " Even that will be a little difficult,
sir. I should have mentioned that I chanced to be an auditor of a
conversation between Mr. and Miss Stoker, from the substance of which I
gathered that it was the gentleman's intention to keep Miss Stoker
virtually in durance vile on board the yacht, not permitting her to go
ashore during the remainder of their enforced stay in the harbour." "
But you said he didn't know anything about the engagement." " Mr.
Stoker's motive in immuring Miss Stoker on the vessel is not to prevent
her encountering his lordship, but to obviate any chance of her meeting
you, sir. The fact that you embraced the young lady has convinced him
that her affection for you has persisted since your parting in New
York." " You're sure you really heard all this ? " " Yes, sir." " How
did you come to do that ? " " I was conversing with his lordship at the
moment on one side of a screen of bushes, when the conversation which I
have described broke out on the other side. There was no alternative but
to overhear Mr. Stoker's remarks."

I started visibly. " You were talking with Chuff y, did you say ? " "
Yes, sir." " And he heard all that, too ? " " Yes, sir." " About me
kissing Miss Stoker ? " " Yes, sir." " Did it seem to stir him up ? " "
Yes sir.' " What did he say ? " " He mentioned something about scooping
out your inside, sir." I wiped the brow. " Jeeves," I said, " this calls
for careful thought." " Yes, sir." " Advise me, Jeeves." " Well, sir, I
think it might be judicious if you were to attempt to persuade his
lordship that the spirit in which you embraced Miss Stoker was a purely
brotherly one." " Brotherly ? You think I could get away with that ? " "
I fancy so, sir. After all, you are an old friend of the young lady. It
would be quite understandable that you should bestow a kindly and
dispassionate kiss upon her on learning of her betrothal to so close an
intimate as his lordship." I rose. " It may work, Jeeves. It is, at
least, worth

trying. I shall now leave you, to prepare myself for the ordeal before
me with silent meditation." " Your tea will be here in a moment, sir." "
No, Jeeves. This is no time for tea. I must concentrate. I must have
that story right before he arrives. I dare say I shall be getting a call
from him shortly. " " It would not surprise me if you were to find his
lordship awaiting you at your cottage now, sir." He was absolutely
correct. No sooner had I crossed the threshold than something exploded
out of the arm-chair and there was Chuffy, gazing bleakly upon me. " Ah
I " he said, speaking the word between clenched teeth and generally
comporting himselfin an unpleasant and disturbing manner. " Here you are
at last! " I slipped him a sympathetic smile. " Here I am, yes. And I
have heard all. Jeeves told me. Too bad, too bad. I little thought, old
man, when I bestowed a brotherly kiss on Pauline Stoker by way of
congratulating her on your engagement, that all this trouble would be
bobbing up so soon afterwards." He continued to give me the eye. "
Brotherly ? " " Essentially brotherly." " Old Stoker didn't seem to
think so." " Well, we know what sort of a mind old Stoker has got, don't
we ? "

" Brotherly ? H'm I " I registered manly regret. " I suppose I shouldn't
have done it . . ." " It was lucky for you I wasn't there when you did."
"... But you know how it is when a fellow you've been at private school,
Eton and Oxford with gets engaged to a girl on whom you look as a
sister. One is carried away." It was plain that a struggle was going on
in the old boy's bosom. He glowered a bit and paced the room a bit and,
happening to trip over a footstool, he kicked it a bit. Then he became
calmer. You could see Reason returning to her throne. " Well, all right,"
he said. " But in future a little less of this fraternal stuff." "
Quite." " Switch it off. Resist the impulse." " Certainly." " If you
want sisters, seek them elsewhere." " Just so." " I don't want to feel,
when I'm married, that at any moment I may come into the room and find a
brother-and-sister act in progress." " I quite understand, old man. Then
you still intend to marry this Pauline ? " " Intend to marry her ? Of
course I intend to Siarry her. I'd look a silly ass not marrying a girl
like that, wouldn't I ? "

" But how about the old Chuffnell scruples ? " " What are you talking
about ? " " Well, if Stoker is not going to buy the Hall, aren't you
rather by way of being back in the position you were in before, when you
would not tell your love, but let the thought of Wotwotleigh like a worm
i' the bud feed on your damask cheek ? " He gave a slight shudder. "
Bertie," he said, " don't remind me of a time when I must have been
absolutely potty. I can't imagine how I ever felt like that. You can
take it as official that my views have changed. I don't care now if I
haven't a bean and she's got a packet. If I can dig up seven-and-six for
the licence and the couple of quid or whatever it is for the man behind
the Prayer Book, this wedding is going through." " Fine." " What does
money matter ? " " Quite." " I mean, love's love." " You never spoke a
truer word, laddie. If I were you, I'd write her a letter embodying
those views. You see, she may think that, now your finances are rocky
once more, you will want to edge out." " I will. And, by Jove I " " What
? " " Jeeves shall take it to her. Thus removing any chance of old
Stoker intercepting it."

" Could he, do you think ? " " My dear chap I A born letter-intercepter.
You can see it in his eye." " I mean, could Jeeves take it ? I don't see
s how." " I should have told you that Stoker wanted Jeeves to leave me
and enter his service. At the time I thought I had never heard such
crust in my life, but now I am all for it. Jeeves shall        I go to
him."                                         <? I got on to the ruse
or scheme. " I see what you mean. Operating under the        , Stoker
banner, he will be free to come and go." " Exactly." " He can take a
letter from you to her and then one from her to you and then one from
you to her and then one from her to you and then one from you to her and
then one . . ." " Yes, yes. You've got the idea. And in the course of
this correspondence we can fix up some scheme for meeting. Have you any
idea how long it takes to clear the decks for a wedding ? " " I'm not
sure. I believe, if you get a special licence, you can do it like a
flash." " I'll get a special licence. Two. Three. Well, this has
certainly put the butter on the spinach. I feel a new man. I'll go and
tell Jeeves at once. He can be on that yacht this evening." At this
point he suddenly stopped. The

brow darkened once more and he shot another of those searching looks at
me. " I suppose she really does love me ? " " Dash it, old man, didn't
she say so ? " " She said so, yes. Yes, she said so. But can you believe
what a girl says ? " " My dear chap I " " Well, they're great kidders.
She may have been fooling me." " Morbid, laddie." He brooded a bit. " It
seems so dashed odd that she should have let you kiss her." " I took her
by surprise." " She could have sloshed you on the ear." " Why ? She
naturally divined that the embrace was purely brotherly." " Brotherly,
eh ? " "Wholly brotherly." " Well, it may be so," said Chuffy
doubtfully. " Have you any sisters, Bertie ? " " No." " But, if you had,
you would kiss them ? " " Repeatedly." " Well . . . Oh, well . . . Well,
perhaps it's all right." " You can believe a Wooster's word, can't you ?
" " I don't know so much. I remember you once, the morning after the
Boat Race our second year at Oxford, telling the magistrates

your name was Eustace H. Plimsoll and that you lived at The Labumams,
Alleyn Road, West Dulwich." " That was a special case, calling for
special measures." " Yes, of course. . . . Yes. . . . Well. . . . Well,
I suppose it's all right. You really do swear there's absolutely nothing
between you and Pauline now ? " " Nothing. We have often laughed
heartily at the thought of that moment's madness in New York." " I never
heard you." " Well, we have done-frequently." "Oh? ... In that case . .
. Well, yes, I suppose . . . Well, anyway, I'll go off and write that
letter."

For some time after he had left me, I remained with the feet up on the
mantelpiece, relaxing. Take it for all in all, it had been a pretty
strenuousday, and I was feeling the strain a bit. The recent exchange of
thoughts with Chuffy alone had taken it out of the nervous system
considerably. And when Brinkley came in and wanted to know when I would
have dinner, the fought of sitting down to a solitary steak and friend
in the cottage didn't appeal. I felt restless, on edge. ?" I shall dine
out, Brinkley," I said. This successor to Jeeves had been sent down

GO     THANK YOU, JEEVES by the agency in London, and I'm bound to say
he wasn't the fellow I'd have selected if I had had time to go round to
the place and make a choice in person. Not at all the man of my dreams.
A melancholy blighter, with a long, thin, pimple-studded face and deep,
brooding eyes, he had shown himself averse from the start to that
agreeable chit-chat between employerand employed to which the society of
Jeeves had accustomed me. I had been trying to establish cordial
relations ever since he had arrived, but with no success. Outwardly he
was all respectfulness, but inwardly you could see that he was a man who
was musing on the coming Social Revolution and looked on Bertram as a
tyrant and an oppressor. " Yes, Brinkley, I shall dine out." He said
nothing, merely looking at me as if he were measuring me for my
lamppost. " I have had a fatiguing day, and I feel a need for the lights
and the wine. Both of these, I should imagine, may he had in Bristol.
And there ought to be a show of some kind playing there, don't you think
? It's one of the Number One touring towns." He sighed slightly. All
this talk of my going to shows was distressing him. What he really
wanted was to see me sprinting down Park Lane with the mob after me with
dripping knives. " I shall take the car and drive over there. You can
have the evening off."

" Very good, sir," he moaned. I gave it up. The man annoyed me. I hadn't
the slightest objection to his spending his time planning massacres for
the bourgeoisie, but I was dashed if I could see why he couldn't do it
with a bright and cheerful smile. Dismissing him with a gesture, I went
round to the garage and got the car out. It was only a matter of thirty
miles or so to Bristol, and I got there in nice time for a comfortable
bite before the theatre. The show was a musical comedy which I had seen
on several occasions during its London run, but it stood ?up quite well
on a further visit, and altogether I was feeling rested and refreshed
when I started back home. I suppose it would have been getting on for
midnight when I fetched up at the rural retreat: and, being about ready
for sleep by now, I lost no time in lighting a candle and toddling
upstairs. As I opened the door of my room, I recollect I was thinking
how particularly well a dollop of slumber would go : and I was just
making for the bed with a song on my lips, so to speak, when something
suddenly sat up in it. The next moment I had dropped the candle and the
room was plunged in darkness. But not before I had seen quite enough to
be getting along with. Reading from left to right, the contents of the
bed consisted of Pauline Stoker in my heliotrope pyjamas with the old
gold stripe.

CHAPTER VII

A   VISITOR   FOR   BERTIE

THE attitude of fellows towards finding girls in their bedroom shortly
after midnight varies. Some like it. Some don't. I didn't. I suppose
it's some old Puritanstrain in the Wooster blood. I drew myself up
censoriously and shot a sternish glance in her direction. Absolutely
wasted, of course, because it was pitch dark. " What . . . What . . .
What . . . ? " " It's all right." " All right ? " " Quite all right." "
Oh ? " I said, and I don't pretend to disguise the fact that I spoke
bitterly. I definitely meant it to sting. I stooped to pick up the
candle, and the next moment I had uttered a startled cry. " Don't make
such a noise I " " But there's a corpse on the floor." " There isn't. I
should have noticed it." " There is, I tell you. I was groping about for
the candle, and my fingers touched somethingcold and still and clammy."
" Oh, that's my swimming suit." " Your swimming suit ? " " Well, do you
think I came ashore by aeroplane ? " " You swam here from the yacht ? "
" Yes." " When ? " " About half an hour ago." In that level-headed,
practical way of mine, I went straight to the root of the matter. " Why
? " I asked. A match scratched and a candle by the bed flamed up and
lent a bit of light to the scene. Once more I was able to observe those
pyjamas, and I'm bound to admit they looked extraordinarily dressy.
Pauline was darkish in her general colour scheme, and heliotrope suited
her. I said as much, always being ready to give credit where credit is
due. " You look fine in that slumber-wear." " Thanks." She blew out the
match, and gazed at me in a sort of wondering way. " You know, Bertie,
steps should be taken about you." " Eh ? " " You ought to be in some
sort of a home." " I am," I replied coldly and rather cleverly. " My
own. The point I wish to thresh out is, What are you doing in it ? "
Womanlike, she evaded the issue. " What on earth did you want to kiss me
like

that for in front of father ? You needn't tell me you were carried away
by my radiant beauty. No, it was j just plain, straight goofiness, and I
can quite understand now why Sir Roderick told father that you ought to
be under restraint. Why are you still at large ? You must have a pull of
some kind." We Woosters are pretty sharp on this sort of thing. I spoke
with a good deal of asperity. " The incident to which you allude is
readily explained. I thought he was Chuffy." " Thought who was Chuffy ?
" " Your father." " If you're trying to make out that Marma-duke looks
the least bit like father you must be cuckoo," she replied with a warmth
equal to my own. I gathered that she was not a great admirer of the
parent's appearance, and I'm not saying she wasn't right. " Besides, I
don't see what you mean." I explained. " The idea was to let Chuffy
observe you in my embrace, so that the generous fire would be stirred
within him and he would get keyed up to proposing to you, feeling that
if he didn't get action right speedily he might lose you." Her manner
softened. " You didn't think that out by yourself ? " " I did." I was
somewhat nettled. " Why everybody should imagine that I can't get ideas
without the assistance of Jeeves ..."

" But that was very sweet of you." " We Woosters are sweet, exceedingly
sweet, * when a pal's happiness is in the balance." " I can see now why
I accepted you that night in New York," she said meditatively. " There's
a sort of woolly-headed duckiness about you. If I wasn't so crazy about
Mar-maduke, I could easily marry you, Bertie."            S " No, no," I
said, with some alarm. " Don't        ]'' dream of it. I mean to say
..."                    I. " Oh, it's all right. I'm not going to. I'm
going to marry Marmaduke; that's why I'm here." " And now," I said, "
we've come right back        i to it. Once more we have worked round to
the        | very point concerning which I most desire        ,
enlightenment. What on earth is the idea behind all this ? You say you
swam ashore from the yacht ? Why ? You came and dumped yourself in my
little home. Why ? " " Because I wanted somewhere to lie low till I
could get clothes, of course. I can't go to the Hall in a swimming
suit." I began to follow the train of thought. " Oh, you swam ashore to
get to Chuffy ? " " Of course. Father was keeping me a prisoner on board
the yacht, and this evening your man Jeeves . . ." I winced. ".My late
man." " All right. Your late man. Your late ma

Jeeves arrived with an early letter from Mar-maduke. Oh, boy I " " How
do you mean, oh, boy ? " " Was that a letter ? I cried six pints when I
read it." " Hot stuff ? " " It  was  beautiful. It throbbed with
poetry." " It did ? " " Yes." " This letter ? " "Yes." " Chuffy's letter
? " " Yes. You seem surprised." I was a bit. One of the very best, old
Chuffy, of course, but I wouldn't have said he could write letters like
that. But then one has got to take into consideration the fact that when
I've been with him he has generally been eating steak-and-kidney pudding
or cursing horses for not running fast enough. On such occasions, the
poetic side of a man is not uppermost. " So this letter stirred you up,
did it ? " " You bet it stirred me up. I felt I couldn't wait another
day without seeing him. What was that poem about a woman wailing for her
demon lover ? " " Ah, there you have me. Jeeves would know." " Well,
that's what I felt like. And, talking

of Jeeves, what a man! Sympathy ? He drips with it." " Oh, you confided
in Jeeves ? " " Yes. And told him what I was going to do." " And he
didn't try to stop you ? " " Stop me ? He was all for it." " He was, was
he ? " " You should have seen him. Such a kind smile. He said you would
be delighted to help me." " He did, eh ? " " He spoke most highly of
you." " Really ? " " Oh, yes, he thinks a lot of you. I remember his
very words. ' Mr. Wooster, miss,' he said, ' is, perhaps, mentally
somewhat negligible, but he has a heart of gold.' He said that as he was
lowering me from the side of the boat by a jpope, having first made sure
that the coast was dear. I couldn't dive, you see, because of the
Splash." I was chewing the lip in some chagrin. " What the devil did he
mean, ' mentally negligible' ? " " Oh, you know. Loopy." " Tchah! " " Eh
? " " I said' Tchah!'" *' Why ? " " Why ? " I was a good deal moved. "
Well, wouldn't you say ' Tchah I ' if your late

man was going about the place telling people you were mentally
negligible. ..." " But with a heart of gold." " Never mind the heart of
gold. The point is that my man, my late man, a fellow I have always
looked on more as some sort of an uncle than a personal attendant, is
shooting to and fro bellowing out at the top of his voice that I am
mentally negligible and filling my bedroom with girls. ..." " Bertie I
Are you annoyed ? " " Annoyed I " " You sound annoyed. And I can't see
why. I should have thought you would have been only too glad of the
chance of helping me get to the man I love. Having this heart of gold I
hear so much about." " The point is not whether I have a heart of gold.
Heaps of people have hearts of gold and yet would be upset at finding
girls in their bedrooms in the small hours. What you don't seem to
realize, what you and this Jeeves of yours have omitted to take into
your calculations,is that I have a reputation to keep up, an unspotted
name to maintain in its pristine purity. This cannot be done by
entertaining girls who come in, in the middle of the night, without so
much as a by-your-leave and coolly pinch your heliotrope pyjamas ..." "
You didn't expect me to sleep in a wet swimming suit ? "

"... and leap into your bed ..." She uttered an exclamation. " I know
what this reminds me of. I've ^ "been trying to think ever since you
came in. 4  The story of the Three Bears. You must have been told it as
a kid. ' There's somebody in my ''bed....' Wasn't that what the Big Bear
said ? '* I frowned doubtfully. " As I recollect it, it was something
about porridge. ' Who's been eating my porridge ? ' " " I'm sure there
was a bed in it." " Bed ? Bed ? I can't remember any bed. On the subject
of the porridge, however, I am absolutely. . . . But we are wandering
from the point once more. What I was saying was that a reputable
bachelor like myself, who has never had his licence so much as endorsed,
can scarcely be blamed for looking askance at girls in heliotrope
pyjamas in his bed. . . ." " You said they suited me." " They do suit
you." " You said I looked fine in them." " You do look fine in them, but
once more you are refusing to meet the issue squarely. The point is . .
." " How many points is that ? I seem to have counted about a dozen." "
There is only one point, and I am endeavouring to make it clear. In a
nutshell, What will people say when they find you here ? " " But they
won't find me here."

"You think so?   Ha!   What about Brinkley ? " " Who's he ? " " My man."
" Your late man ? " I clicked the tongue. " My new man. At nine
to-morrow morning he will bring me tea." " Well, you'll like that." " He
will bring it to this room. He will approach the bed. He will place it
on the table." " What on earth for ? " " To facilitate my getting at the
cup and sipping." " Oh, you mean he will put the tea on the table. You
said he would put the bed on the table." " I never said anything of the
sort." " You did. Distinctly.' I tried to reason with the girl. " My
dear child," I said, " I must really ask you to use your intelligence.
Brinkley is not a juggler. He is a well-trained gentleman's gentleman,
and would consider it a liberty to put beds on tables. And why should he
put beds on tables ? The idea would never occur to him. He . . " She
interrupted my reasoning. " But wait a minute. You keep babbling about
Brinkley, but there isn't a Brinkley."

" There is a Brinkley. One Brinkley. And one Brinkley coming into this
room at nine O'clock to-morrow morning and finding you in that bed will
be enough to start a scandal which will stagger humanity." " I mean, he
can't be in the house." " Of course he's in the house." " Well, he must
be deaf, then. I made enough noise getting in to wake six gentlemen's
gentlemen. Apart from smashing a window at the back . . ." " Did you
smash a window at the back ? " " I had to, or I couldn't have got in. It
was the window of some sort of bedroom on the ground floor." "Why, dash
it, that's Brinkley's bed room." " Well, he wasn't in it." " Why on
earth not ? I gave him the evening Off, not the night." " I can see what
has happened. He's away on a toot somewhere, and won't be back for days.
Father had a man who did that once. He went out f^r his evening from our
house on East Sixty-Seventh Street, New York, on April the fourth in a
bowler hat, grey gloves and a check suit, and the next we heard of him
was a telegram from Portland, Oregon, on April the tenth, saying he had
overslept himself and would be back shortly. That's what your Brinkley
must have done."

I must say I drew a good deal of comfort from the idea. " Let us hope
so," I said. "If he is really trying to drown his sorrows, it ought to
take him weeks." " So, you see, you've been making a fuss about nothing.
I always say . . ." But what it was she always said, I was not
privileged to learn. For at that moment she broke off with a sharp
squeak. Somebody was knocking on the front door.

CHAPTER VIII

POLICE   PERSECUTION

WE looked at each other with a wild surmise, silent upon a first-floor
back in Chuffnell Regis.  That frightful sound, coming unexpectedly like
that in the middle of the peaceful summer night, had been enough to
strike the chit-chat from anybody's lips. And what rendered it so
particularly unpleasant to us, personally, was the fact that we had both
jumped simultaneously to the same ghastly conclusion. " It's father I "
Pauline gargled, and with a swift flip of her finger she doused the
candle. " What did you do that for ? " I said, a good deal pipped. The
sudden darkness seemed to make things worse. " So that he shouldn't see
a light in the window, of course. If he thinks you're asleep he may go
away." " What a hope I " I retorted, as the knocking, which had eased
off for a moment, started again with more follow-through than ever. "
Well, I suppose you had better go down," said the girl in a subdued sort
of voice. " Or "

-she seemed to brighten-" shall we pour water on him from the staircase
window ? " I started violently. She had made the suggestion as if she
considered it one of her best and brightest, and I suddenly realized
what it meant to play the host to a girl of her temperament and
personality. All that I had ever heard or read about the reckless
younger generation seemed to come back to me. " Don't dream of it! " I
whispered urgently. " Dismiss the project utterly and absolutely from
your mind." I mean to say, a dry J. Washburn Stoker seeking an errant
daughter was bad enough. A J. Washburn Stoker stimulated to additional
acerbity by a jugful of HgO on his head, I declined to contemplate.
Goodness knows, I wasn't keen on going down and passing the time of
night with the man, but if the alternative was to allow his loved ones
to drench him to the skin and then wait while he tore the walls down
with his bare hands I proposed to do so immediately. " I'll have to see
him," I said. " Well, be careful." " How do you mean, careful ? " " Oh,
just careful. Still, of course, he may not have a gun." I swallowed a
trifle. " What exactly would you say the odds were, for and against ? "

She mused awhile. " I'm trying to remember if father is a Southerner or
not.'" " A what ? " " I know he was born at a place called Carterville,
but I can't recollect if it was Carter-ville, Kentucky, or Carterville,
Massachusetts." " What the dickens difference does it make ? " " Well,
if you smirch the honour of a Southerner's family, he's apt to shoot." "
Would your father consider it smirched the family honour, your being
here ? " " Bound to, I should think." I couldn't help agreeing with her.
It did seem to me offhand that a purist might consider the smirching
pretty good, but I hadn't time to weigh the point, because the knocker
got going again with renewed vim. " Well, dash it," I said, " wherever
this ghastly parent of yours was born, I shall have to go down and talk
to him. That door will be splitting asunder soon." " Don't get closer to
him than you can help." " I won't." " He was a great wrestler when he
was a young man." " You needn't tell me any more about your father." " I
only meant, I wouldn't let him get hold of you, if you can help. Is
there anywhere I can hide ? "

" No." " Why not ? " " I don't know why not," I replied, a little
curtly.  " They don't build these country cottages with secret rooms and
underground passages. When you hear me open the front door, stop
breathing." " Do you want me to suffocate ? " Well, of course, a Wooster
does not put such thoughts into words, but I'm bound to say this struck
me as a jolly good idea. Forbearing to reply, I hurried down the stairs
and flung open the front door. Well, when I say flung, I opened it a
matter of six inches, not omitting to keep it on the chain. " Hallo ? "
I said. " Yes ? " I don't know when I've felt such a chunk of relief as
surged over me the next moment. " Oy I " said a voice. " Taken your
time, haven't you ? What's the matter with you, young man ? Deaf or
something ? " It wasn't in its essentials a musical voice, being on the
thick side and a shade roopy. If I'd been its owneF, I'd have given more
than a little thought to the subject of tonsils. But it had one supreme
merit which outweighedall its defects. It wasn't the voice of J.
Washburn Stoker. " Frightfully sorry," I said. " I was thinking of this
and that. Sort of reverie, if you know what I mean."

The voice spoke again, not without a pretty goodish modicum of suavity
this time. " Oh, I beg your pardon, sir. I thought you was the young man
Brinkley." " Brinkley's out," I said, feeling that if he ever returned I
would have a word to say to him about the hours at which his pals paid
social calls. " Who are you ? " " Sergeant Voules, sir." I opened the
door. It was pretty dark outside,but I could recognize the arm of the
Law all right. This Voules was a bird built rather on the lines of the
Albert Hall, round in the middle and not much above. He always looked to
me as if Nature had really intended to make two police sergeants and had
forgotten to split them up. " Ah, Sergeant! " I said. Careless,
debonair. Not a thing on Bertram's mind, you would have supposed, but
his hair. . " Anything I can do for you. Sergeant ? " My eyes were
getting accustomed to the darkness by this time, and I was enabled to
spot certain objects of interest by the wayside. The principal one was
another policeman. Tall ?and lean and stringy, this one. " This is my
young nephew, ,sir. Constable Dobson." Well, I wasn't exactly in the
mood for a social reunion, and I could have wished that the sergeant, if
he wanted to make me one of

the family and all pals together, so to speak, had selected some other
time, but I inclined the bean gracefully in the constable's direction
and uttered a kindly " Ah, Dobson! " I rather think, if I remember, that
I also said something about its being a fine night. But apparently this
wasn't just one of those chummy gatherings which recall the old-time
salon. " Are you aware, sir, that there's a window broke at the back of
your residence ? My young nephew here spotted it and thought best to
wake me up and have me investigate. A ground-floor window, sir, with a
whole pane of glass gone from it." I simpered slightly. " Oh, that ?
Yes, Brinkley did that yesterday.Silly ass I " " You knew about it,
then, sir ? " '' Oh, yes. Oh, yes. Quite all right, Sergeant.'' " Well,
you know best if it's quite all right, sir, but I should say there was a
danger of marauders getting through." And at this juncture the chump of
a constable,who had hitherto not spoken, shoved his oar in. " I thought
I did see a marauder getting through. Uncle Ted." " What! Then why
didn't you tell me before, you young muttonhead ? And don't call me
Uncle Ted when we're on duty."

" No, Uncle Ted." " You'd best let us make a search o.f the *ouse, sir,"
said Sergeant Voules. Well, I put the presidential veto on this pretty
quick. " Certainly not. Sergeant," I said. " Quite out of the q." " It
would be wiser, sir." " I'm sorry," I said, " but it can't be done." He
seemed piqued and discontented. " Well, please yourself, sir, but you're
shackling the police, that's what you're doing. There's too much
shackling of the police these days. There was a piece in the Mail about
it yesterday. Perhaps you read it ? " "No." " On the middle page.
Unshackle the police, it said, because public alarm is growing in Great
Britain owing to the continuous increase of crime in the lonely rural
districts. I clipped it out to paste in my album. The number of
indictable offences, it said, has rose from one three four five eight
one in 1929 to one four seven nought three one in 1930, with a marked
increase of seven percent. in crimes of violence, and is this
disturbing state of things due to slackness on the part of the police,
it said ? No, it said, it's not.  It's because the police are shackled."
The man was obviously cut to the quick. Dashed awkward.

the house when a heavy hand fell on my shoulder,occasioning me both
mental and physical distress, and a shadowy form said " Gotcher I " "
Ouch I " I replied. The shadowy form now revealed itself as that of
Constable Dobson of the Chuffnell Regis police force. He was in
apologetic vein. "I'm sure I beg your pardon, sir. I thought you was the
marauder." I forced myself to be airy and affable. The young squire
setting the lower orders at their ease. " Quite all right. Constable.
Quite all right. Just going for a stroll." " I understand, sir. Breath
of air." " You have put it in a nutshell. A breath, as you astutely
observe, of air. The house is    quite close." " Yes, sir. Just over
there." " I mean stuffy." " Oh, yes, sir. Well, good night, sir."
"Tra-la, Constable." I proceeded on my way, a little shaken. I had left
the garage door open, and I felt my way to the old two-seater, glad to
be alone once more. In certain moods, no doubt, one would have found
Constable Dobson a delightfuland stimulating companion, but to-night I
preferred his absence. I climbed into the car and, leaning back,
endeavoured to compose myself for sleep. Now, whether I should have been
able to

^achieve the dreamless had the conditions re-/0?ained right, I cannot
say. The point is ',||pretty moot. As two-seaters go, I had always
3fc?und mine fairly comfortable, but then I had ?Sever before tried to
get the eight hours in it, sad you would be surprised at the number of
knobs and protuberances which seem suddenly to sprout out of a car's
upholstery when you seek to convert it into a bed. But, as it happened,
I was not given a square chance of making the test. I don't suppose I
could have counted more than about a platoon and a half of sheep when a
light suddenly flashed on the features and a voice instructed me to come
on out of it. I sat up. " Ah, Sergeant! " I said. Another awkward
meeting. Embarrassment on both sides. " Is that you, sir ? " " Yes." "
Sorry to have disturbed you, sir." " Not at all." " Can't say it
occurred to me that it might be you in here, sir." " I thought I'd try
to get a bit of sleep in the old car. Sergeant." ? Yes, sir." " Such a
warm night." "Just so, sir." His voice was respectful, but I could not H

conquer a suspicion that he was beginning to look a bit askance. There
was something in his manner that gave me the idea that he considered
Bertram eccentric. " Stuffy indoors." " Yes, sir ? " " I often park
myself in the car in the summertime." " Yes, sir ? " " Good night.
Sergeant." " Good night, sir." Well, you know how it is when someone
butts in on you just as you are shaping for the beauty sleep. It breaks
the spell, if you know what I mean. I curled up again, but I soon saw
that all efforts in the direction of the restful night in my present
environment would be fruitless. I counted about five more medium-sized
flocks, but it was no good. Steps, I realized, would have to be taken
through other channels. I hadn't done a great deal of exploring in these
grounds of mine, but it so happened that one morning a sharp shower had
driven me to the shelter of a species of shed or outhouse down in the
south-west corner of the estate where the gardener-by-the-day stacked
his tools and flower-pots and what not. And, unless memory deceived me,
there had been in that outhouse or shed a pile of sacking on the floor.
Well, you may say that sacking, considered in the light of a bed, isn't
everybody's money,

and in saying so you would be perfectly correct. But after half an hour
in the seat of a Widgeon Seven, even sacking begins to look pretty good
to you. It may be a little hardish on the frame, and it may smell a good
deal of mice and the deep-delved earth, but there remains just one point
to be put forward in its favour -viz. that it enables one to stretch the
limbs. And stretching the limbs was the thing I felt now that I wanted
to do most. In addition to smelling of mice and mould, the particular
segment of sacking on which some two minutes later I was reclining had a
marked aroma of by-the-day gardener : and there was a moment when I had
to ask myself if the mixture wasn't a shade too rich. But these things
grow on one in time, and at the end of about a quarter of an hour I was
rather enjoying the blend of scents than otherwise. I can recall
inflating the lungs and more or less drinking it in. At the end of about
half an hour a soothing drowsiness had begun to steal over me. And at
the end of about thirty-five minutes the door flew open and there was
the old, familiar lantern shining in again. " Ah I " said Sergeant
Voules. And Constable Dobson said the same. I realized that the time had
come to strike a forceful note with these two pests. I am all for not
shackling the police, but what I maintainis that if the police come
dodging about a

Il6     THANK YOU, JEEVES householder's garden all night, routing him
out every time he is on the point of snatching a little repose, they
have jolly well got to be shackled. " Yes ? " I said, and there was a
touch of the imperious old aristocrat in my manner. " What is it now ? "
Constable Dobson had been saying something in a pretty self-satisfied
sort of way about having seen me creeping through the darkness and
tracking me like a leopard, and Sergeant Voules, who was a man who
believed in keeping nephews in their place, was remarking that he had
seen me first and had tracked me just as much like a leopard as
Constable Dobson : but at these crisp words a sudden silence fell upon
them. " Is that you again, sir ? " inquired the sergeant in rather an
awed voice. " Yes, it is, dash it! What, may I ask, is the meaning of
this incessant chivying ? Sleep under these conditions becomes
impossible." " Very sorry, sir. It never occurred to me that it could be
you." " And why not ? " " Well, sleeping in a shed, sir . . ." " You do
not dispute the fact that it is my shed ? " " No, sir. But it sort of
seems funny." " I see nothing funny in it whatsoever." " Uncle Ted means
' odd,' sir."

" Not so much of what Uncle Ted means. And don't call me Uncle Ted. What
it sort of seemed to us, sir, was peculiar." " I cannot subscribe to
your opinion. Sergeant," I said stiffly. " I have a perfect right, have
I not, to sleep where I please ? " " Yes, sir." " Exactly. It might be
the coal cellar. It might be the front-door steps. It happens to be this
shed. I will now thank you. Sergeant, to withdraw. At this rate, I
shall't drop off till daybreak." " Are you intending to remain here the
rest of the night, sir ? " "Certainly. Why not ?" I had got him. He was
at a loss. " Well, I suppose there's no reason why you shouldn't, if you
want to, sir. But it seems . . ." " Odd," said Constable Dobson. "
Peculiar," said Sergeant Voules. " It seems peculiar, having a bed of
your own, sir, if I might say so . . ." I had had enough of this. " I
hate beds," I said curtly. " Can't stand them. Never could." " Very
good, sir." He paused a moment. " Quite a warm day to-day, sir." "
Quite." "My young nephew here pretty near got a touch of the sun. Didn't
you. Constable ? "

Il8     THANK YOU, JEEVES " Ah I " said Constable Dobson. " Made him
come over all funny." " Indeed ? " " Yes, sir. Sort of seemed to addle
the brain." I endeavoured without undue brusqueness to convey to this
man the idea that I did not consider one in the morning a suitable time
for discussing his nephew's addled brain. " You must give me all the
family medical gossip another day," I said. " At the moment, I wish to
be alone." " Yes, sir. Good night, sir." " Good night. Sergeant." " If I
might ask the question, sir, do you feel a sort of burning feeling about
the temples ? " " I beg your pardon ? " " Does your head throb, sir ? "
" It's beginning to." " Ah I Well, good night, sir, again.' " Good
night. Sergeant." " Good night, sir." " Good night. Constable." " Good
night, sir." The door closed softly. I could hea them whispering for a
moment or two, like a couple of specialists holding a conference outside
the sick-room. Then they appeared to ooze off, for all became quiet save
for the lapping of the waves on the shore. And, by Jove, so
sedulouslydid these waves lap that gradually a

POLICE PERSECUTION    IIQ drowsiness crept over me and not ten minutes
after I had made up my mind that I should never get to sleep again in
this world I was off as comfortably as a babe or suckling. It couldn't
last, of course-not in a place like Chuffnell Regis, a hamlet containing
more Nosey Parkers to the square foot than any other spot in England.
The next thing I remember is someone joggling my arm. I sat up. There
was the good old lantern once more. " Now, listen ..." I was beginning,
with a generous strength, when the words froze on my lips. The fellow
who was joggling my arm was Chuffy.

CHAPTER IX

LOVERS'   MEETINGS

Fhas been well said of Bertram Wooster that he is a man who is at all
times glad to see his friends and can be relied upon to greet them with
a cheery smile and a gay quip. But though in the main this is correct, I
make one proviso-viz. that the conditions be right. On the present
occasion they were not. When an old schoolmate's francee is roosting in
your bed in a suit of your personal pyjamas, it is hard to frisk round
this old schoolmate with any abandon when he suddenly appears in the
immediate vicinity. I uttered, accordingly, no gay quip. I couldn't even
manage the cheery smile. I just sat goggling at the man, wondering how
he had got there, how long he proposed to remain, and what the chances
were of Pauline Stoker suddenly shoving her head out of window and
shouting to me to come and grapple with a mouse or something. Chuffy was
bending over me with a sort of bedside manner. In the background I could
see Sergeant Voules hovering with something of the air of a trained
nurse. What had becomeof Constable Dobson, I did not know.

It seemed too jolly to think that he was dead, so I took it that he had
returned to his beat. " It's all right, Bertie," said Chuffy soothingly.
" It's me, old man." " I found his lordship by the side of the barbour,"
explained the sergeant. I must say I chafed a bit. I saw what had
happened. When you tear a lover of Chuffy's calibre from the girl of his
heart, he does not just mix himself a final spot and turn in-he goes and
stands beneath her window. And if she's on a yacht, anchored out in the
middle of a harbour, this can only be done, of course, by infesting the
water-front. All quite in order, no doubt, but in the present circs
dashed inconvenient, to use the mildest term. And what was making me
chafe was the thought that if only he had got to his parking place a bit
earlier he would have been in a position to welcome the girl as she came
ashore, thus obviating all the present awkwardness. " The sergeant was
worried about you, Bertie. He seemed to think your manner was strange.
So he brought me along to have a look at you, Very sensible of you,
Voules." " Thank you, m'lord." " A sound move." " Thank you, m'lord." "
You couldn't have done a wiser thing." " Thank you, m'lord." It was
sickening to hear them.

" So you've got a touch of the sun, Bertie ? " " I have not got a touch
of any bally sun." " Voules thought so." " Voules is an ass." The
sergeant bridled somewhat. " Begging your pardon, sir, you informed me
that your head throbbed, and I assumed that the brain was addled." "
Exactly. You must have gone slightly off your rocker, old chap," said
Chuff y gently, " mustn't you ? To be sleeping out here, I mean, what ?
" " Why shouldn't I sleep out here ? " I saw Chuffy and the sergeant
exchange glances. " But you've got a bedroom, old fellow. You've got a
nice bedroom, haven't you ? I should have thought you would have found
it so much snugger and jollier in your cosy little bedroom." The
Woosters have all been pretty quick thinkers. I saw that I had got to
make this move of mine seem plausible. " There's a spider in my
bedroom." " A spider, eh ? Pink ? " " Pinkish." " With long legs ? " "
Fairly long legs." " And hairy, I shouldn't wonder ? " " Very hairy."
The rays of the lantern were falling on

Chuffy's face, and at this point I observed a subtle change come into
his expression. A moment before, he had been solicitous old Doctor
Chuffnell, gravely concerned about the sorely sick patient whom he had
been called in to treat. He now grinned in a most unpleasant manner and,
rising, drew Sergeant Voules aside and addressed a remark to him which
told me that he had placed an entirely wrong constructionon the matter.
" It's all right. Sergeant. Nothing to worry about. He's simply as tight
as an owl." I think he imagined he was speaking in a tactful undertone,
but his words came clearly to my ears, as did the sergeant's reply. " Is
that so, m'lord ? " said Sergeant Voules. And his voice was the voice of
a sergeant to whom all things have been made clear. "That's all that's
the trouble. Completely boiled. You notice the glassy look in the eyes ?
" " Yes, m'lord." " I've seen him like this before. Once, after a
bump-supper at Oxford, he insisted that he       |j was a mermaid and
wanted to dive into the college fountain and play the harp there." "
Young gents will be young gents," said Sergeant Voules in a tolerant and
broadminded manner. " We must put him to bed." I jumped up.
Horror-stricken. Tre"nbling like a leaf.

-<y 124     THANK YOU, JEEVES " I don't want to go to bed ' " Chuffy
stroked my arm soothingly. " It's all right, Bertie. Quite all right. We
understand. No wonder you were frightened. Beastly great spider. Enough
to frighten any one. But it's all right now. Voules and I will come up
to your room with you and kill it. You aren't scared of spiders, Voules
? " " No, m'lord." " You hear that, Bertie ? Voules will stand by you.
Voules can tackle any spider. How many spiders was it you were telling
me you took on in India once, Voules ? " " Ninety-six, m'lord." " Big
ones, if I remember rightly ? " "Whackers, m'lord." " There, Bertie. You
see there's nothing to be afraid of. You take this arm. Sergeant. 1*11
take the other. Just relax, Bertie. We'll hold you up." Looking back, I
am not certain whether I didn't do the wrong thing at this juncture. It
may be that a few well-chosen words would have served me better.  But
you know how it is about well-chosen words. When you need them most, you
can't find any. The sergeant had begun to freeze on to my left arm, and
I couldn't think of a single remark. So, in lieu of conversation, I
punched him in the tummy and made a dash for the open spaces. Well, you
can't go far at a high rate of speed

in a dark shed littered with the belongings of a by-the-day gardener. I
suppose there were quite half a dozen things I could have come a purler
over. The one which actually caused me to take the toss was a
watering-can. I fell with a dull, sickening thud, and when reason
returned to her throne I found I was being carried through the summer
night in the direction of the house. Chuffy had got me under the arms,
and Sergeant Voules was attached to my feet. And, thus linked, we passed
through the front door and up the stairs. It wasn't, perhaps, actually
the frog's march, but it was quite near enough to it to wound my amour
propre. Not that I was thinking such a frightful lot about my amour
propre at the moment. We had reached the bedroom door now, and what I
was asking myself was. What would the harvest be when Chuffy opened it
and noted contents ? " Chuffy," I said, and I spoke earnestly, " don't
go into that room I " But it's no good speaking earnestly if your *?
head's hanging down and your tongue has got tangled up with your back
teeth. All that actually emerged was a sort of gargle, and Chuffy
completely misunderstood it. " I know, I know," he said. " Never mind.
Soon be in beddy-bye now." I considered his manner offensive, and would

have said so, but at this moment speech was, so to speak, wiped from my
lips, as it were, by amazement. With a quick heave, my bearers had
suddenly dumped me on the bed, and all that the frame had encountered
was a blanket and pillow. Of anything in the nature of a girl in
heliotrope pyjamas there was absolutely no trace. I lay there,
wondering. Chuffy had found the candle and lighted it, and I was now in
a position to look about me. Pauline Stoker had absolutely disappeared.
Leaving not a wrack behind, as I remember Jeeves saying once. Dashed
odd. Chuffy was dismissing his assistant. " Thanks, Sergeant. I can
manage now." " You're sure, m'lord ? " " Yes, it's quite all right. He
always drops off to sleep on these occasions." " Then I think I'll be
going, m'lord. It's a bit late for me." " Yes, pop off. Good night." "
Good night, m'lord." The sergeant clumped down the stairs, making enough
row for two sergeants, and Chuffy, with something of the air of a mother
brooding over a sleeping child, took off my boots. " That's my little
man," he said. " Now you lie quite quiet, Bertie, and take things easy."
It is a thing I have often wondered, whether

r

I would or would not have commented upon what I considered the
insufferably patronizing pote in his voice as he called me his little
man. I wanted to, but I saw that it would be fruitless unless I could
think of something more than a little biting: and it was while I was
searching in my mind for the telling phrase that the door of the hanging
cupboard outside the room opened and Pauline Stoker came strolling in as
if she hadn't a care in the world. In fact, she seemed distinctly
entertained. " What a night, what a night! " she said amusedly. " A
close call that, Bertie. Who were those men I heard going out ? " And
then she suddenly sighted Chuffy, gave a kind of gasping squeak, and the
love light came into her eyes as if somebody had pressed a switch. "
Marmaduke I " she cried, and stood there, staring. But, by Jove, it was
the poor old schoolmate who was doing the real staring, in the truest
and fullest sense of the word. I've seen starers in my time, many of
them, but never one who came within a mile of putting up the performance which Chuffy did then. The eyebrows had shot up, the jaw had
fallen, and the eyes were protruding from one to two inches from the
parent sockets. He also appeared to be trying to say something, but in
this he flopped badly. Nothing came through except a rather
unpleasantwhistling sound, not quite so loud as

the row your radio makes when you twiddle the twiddler a bit too hard
but in other respects closely resembling it. Pauline, meanwhile, had
begun to advance with the air of a woman getting together with her demon
lover, and a sort of pity for the girl shot through the Wooster bosom. I
mean to say, any observant outsider like myself could see so clearly
that she had got quite the wrong angle on the situation. I could read
Chuffy like a book, and I knew that she was totally mistaken in what she
supposed to be his emotions at this juncture. That odd noise he was
making I could diagnose, not as the love call which she appeared to
think it, but as the stern and censorious gruffle of a man who, finding
his loved one on alien premises in heliotrope pyjamas, is stricken to
the core, cut to the quick, and as sore as a gumboil. But she, poor
simp, being so dashed glad to behold him, had not so much as begun to
suspect that he, the circs being what they were, might possibly not be
equally glad to behold her. With the result that when at this juncture
he stepped back and folded his arms with a bitter sneer, it was as if he
had jabbed her in the eye with a burnt stick. The light faded from her
face, and in its stead there appeared the hurt, bewildered look of a
barefoot dancer who, while half way through The Vision of Salome, steps
on a tin tack.

" Marmaduke! " Chuffy unleashed another bitter sneer. " So I " he said,
finding speech-if you can call that speech. " What do you mean ? Why are
you looking like that ? " I thought it about time that I put in a word.
I had risen from the bed on Pauline's entry and for some moments had
been teetering towards the door with a sort of sketchy idea of making
for the great open spaces. But partly because I felt that it ill
beseemed a Wooster to leg it at such a time and partly because I had no
boots on, I had decided to remain. I now intervened, coming across with
the word in season. " What you want on an occasion like this, Chuffy,
old man," I said, " is simple faith. The poet Tennyson tells us . . ." "
Shut up," said Chuffy. " I don't want to hear anything from you." "Right
ho," I said. "But, all the same, simple faith is better than Norman
blood, and you can't get away from it." Pauline was looking a bit
fogged. " Simple faith ? What . . . Oh I " she said, abruptly signing
off. And I noted that the features were suffused with a crimson blush. "
Oh I " she said. The cheeks continued to glow. But now it was not the
blush of modesty that hotted them up. That first "Oh!" I take it, had
been l

caused by her catching sight of her pyjamaed limbs and suddenly getting
on to the equivocal nature of her position. The second one was
different. It was the heart cry of a woman who is madder than a hornet.
I mean, you know how it is. A sensitive and high-spirited girl goes
through the deuce of an ordeal to win through to the bloke she loves,
jumping off yachts, swimming through dashed cold water, climbing into
cottages, and borrowingother people's pyjamas, and then, when she has
come to journey's end, so to speak, and is expecting the tender smile
and the whispered endearments, gets instead the lowering frown, the
curled lip, the suspicious eye, and-in a word-the raspberry. Naturally,
she's a bit upset. " Oh I " she said, for the third time, and her teeth
gave a little click, most unpleasant. " So that's what you think ? "
Chuffy shook his head in an impatient sort of way. " Of course I don't."
" You do." " I don't." " Yes, you do." " I don't think anything of the
kind," said Chuffy. " I know that Bertie has been . . ." "...
Scrupulously correct in his behaviour throughout," I suggested. " . . ?
sleeping in a potting shed," continued

LOVERS' MEETINGS     13! Chuffy, and I must say it didn't sound half as
good as my version. " That's not the point. The fact remains that in
spite of being engaged to me and pretending this afternoon that you Were
tickled pink to be engaged to me, you are still so much in love with
Bertie that you can't keep away from him. You think I don't know all
about your being engaged to him in New York, but I do. Oh, I'm not
complaining," said Chuffy, looking rather like Saint Sebastian on
receipt of about the fifteenth arrow. " You have a perfect right to love
who you like . . ." " Whom, old man," I couldn't help saying. Jeeves has
made me rather a purist in these matters. " Will you keep quiet! " " Of
course, of course." " You keep shoving your oar in. . . ." " Sorry,
sorry. Shan't occur again." Chuffy, who had been gazing at me as if he
would have liked to strike me with a blunt instrument, gazed once more
at Pauline as if he would have liked to strike her with a blunt
instrument. " But ..." He paused. " Now you've made me forget what I was
going to say," he said in a rather peevish manner. Famine took the
floor. She was still on the pink side, and her eyes were gleaming
glitteringly. I've seen my Aunt Agatha's eyes gleam just like that when
she prepared to tick me off

for some fancied misdemeanour. Of the love light no traces remained. "
Well, then, perhaps you'll listen to what I'm going to say. I suppose
you have no objection to my putting in a word ? " " None," said Chuffy.
" None, none," I said. Pauline was beyond a question stirred to the
core. I could see her toes wiggling. " In the first place, you make me
sick I " " Indeed ? " " Yes, indeed. In the second place, I hope I shall
never see you again in this world or the next." " Really ? " " Yes,
really. I hate you. I wish I'd never met you. I think you're a worse pig
than any you've got up at that beastly house of yours." This interested
me. " I didn't know you kept pigs, Chuffy." " Black Berkshires," he said
absently. " Well, if that's how you . . ." " There's money in pigs." "
Well, all right," said Chuffy. " If that's how you feel, well, all
right." " You bet it's all right." " That's what I said, it's all
right." " My Uncle Henry . . ." " Bertie," said Chuffy. " Hallo ? " " I
don't want to hear about your Uncle

Henry. I am not interested in your Uncle Henry. It will be all right
with me if your damned 'Uncle Henry trips over his feet and breaks his
blasted neck." " Too late, old man. He passed away three years ago.
Pneumonia. I was only saying he kept pigs. Made a good thing out of
them, too." " Will you stop . . ." " Yes, and will you," said Pauline. "
Are you going to spend the night here ? I wish you would leave off
talking and go." " I will," said Chuffy. " Do," said Pauline. " Good
night," said Chuffy. He strode to the head of the stairs. " But one last
word . . ." he said with a wide, passionate gesture. Well, I could have
told the poor old chap that you can't do that sort of thing in these
old-world country cottages. His knuckles hit a projecting beam, he
danced in agony, overbalanced, and the next moment was on his way to the
ground floor like a sack of coals. Pauline Stoker ran to the banisters
and looked over. " Are you hurt ? " she cried. " Yes," yelled Chuffy. "
Good," cried Pauline. She came back into the room, and the front door
slammed like the bursting of an overwrought heart.

CHAPTER X

ANOTHER   VISITOR

I DREW a deepish breath. With the departureof the male half of the
sketch a certain strain seemed to have gone out of the atmosphere.
Excellent companion though I had always found him in the past. Chuff y
had not shown himself at his chummiest during the recent scene, with the
result that for some little time I had been feeling rather like Daniel
in the lions' den. Pauline was panting somewhat. Not exactly snorting,
but coming very near to what you might call the borderland of the snort.
Her eyes were hard and bright. Deeply moved. She picked up her bathing
suit. " Push off, Bertie," she said. I had been hoping for a quiet chat,
in the course of which we would review the situation, touching on this
point and on that, and strive to ascertain what to do for the best. "
But listen. . . ." " I want to change." " Change what ? " " Put on my
swimming suit." I could not follow her. " Why ? " " Because I am going
to swim."

" Swim ? " " Swim." I stared. " You aren't going back to the yacht ? " "
I am going back to the yacht." " But I wanted to talk about Chuffy." " I
never wish to hear his name mentioned again." It seemed time to be the
wise old mediator. " Oh, come I " " Well ? " " When I say ' Oh, come
'"'I explained, " I mean surely you don't intend to give the poor
blighter the permanent air on account of a trifling lovers' tiff ? " She
looked at me in rather a peculiar manner. " Would you mind repeating
that ? Just the last three words." " Trifling lovers' tiff ? " She
breathed heavily, and for a moment I experienced a return of that lions'
den sensation. " I wasn't sure I had caught them correctly," she said. "
I mean to say you get (a) a girl and (6) a bloke and stir up their
generous natures, and the result is that each says lots of things she or
he doesn't mean." " Oh ? Well, let me tell you I meant every word I
said. I told him I never wanted to speak to him again. I don't. I told
him I hated him. I do. I called him a pig. He

" Now, that's rummy about Chuffy's pigs. I had no notion he kept them."
" Why not ? Birds of a feather." There seemed nothing much more to say
about pigs. " Aren't you a bit hard ? " " Am I ? " " And rather rough on
Chuff y ? " "Am I ? " " You wouldn't say his attitude was excusable ? "
" I would not." " Must have been a shock for the poor old chap, I mean,
barging in and finding you here." " Bertie." " Hallo ? " " Ever been hit
over the head with a chair ? " " No." " Well, you soon may be." I began
to see she was in difficult mood. " Oh, well! " " Does that mean the
same as * Oh, come I ' ? " " No. All I was driving at was that it seems
a pity. Two loving hearts sundered for ever- bingo I " " Yes ? " "
Still, if that's the way you feel, well, that's the way you feel, what ?
" " Yes." " We now come to this idea of swimming home. Potty, it strikes
me as."

** There's nothing to keep me here now, is there ? " " No. But the
midnight swim. . . . You're going to find it pretty cold." " And wet. I
don't care." " And how are you going to get aboard ? " " I'll get
aboard. I can climb up by the thing they hang the anchor from. I've done
it before. So will you remove yourself and let me change." I went out on
to the landing. And presently she emerged in the bathing suit. " You
needn't see me out." " Of course I will, if you're really going." " I'm
going, all right." " Well, if you must." Outside the front door the air
seemed nippier than ever. The mere thought of plunging into the harbour
gave me the shivers. But it had no effect on her. She slipped off into
the darkness without a word, and I went upstairs to bed. You might have
thought that after garages and potting sheds the fact that I was in a
bed would have resulted in instant slumber. But no. I couldn't get off.
The more I tried, the more I found the mind turning to what you might
call the tragedy in which I had so recently participated. I don't mind
admitting that my heart ached for Chuffy. It also ached for Pauline. It
ached for both of them. I mean to say, consider the facts. Two
thoroughly sound eggs, destined for each other,

you might almost say, through all eternity, giving each other the bird
like this for no reason whatever, really. Pitiful. Rotten. No good to
man or beast. The more I thought of it, the sillier it seemed. And yet
there it was. Words had passed. Relations had been severed. The whole
hinge was irrevocably on. There is only one thing for the sympathetic
bystander to do on these occasions, and I realized now that it was
madness not to have done it before going to bed and attempting sleep. I
slid out from between the sheets and went downstairs. The whisky bottle
was in the cupboard. So was the siphon.  So was the glass. I mixed
myself a healing beaker and sat down. And, as I did so, I observed on
the table a sheet of paper. It was a note from Pauline Stoker.

Dear Bertie, You were right about it being cold. I couldn't face the
swim. But there's a boat down by the landing stage. I shall row to the
yacht and set it adrift. I've come back to borrow your overcoat. I
didn't want to disturb you, so I climbed in through the window.  I'm
afraid you will have to sacrifice the coat, as of course I shall have to
throw it overboard when I get to the yacht. Sorry. P.S.

You notice the style ? Curt. Staccato. Evidenceof the wounded heart and
the heavy mind. I felt sorrier for her than ever, but glad she probably
wasn't going to get a cold in the head. As for the coat, a careless
shrug of the shoulders covered that. I did not grudge it her, though new
and silk-lined. Only too pleased, about summed up my attitude in the
matter. I tore up the note and returned to my spot. There is nothing
like a strong w-and-s for calming the system. In about another quarter
of an hour I was feeling so soothed that I could contemplate bed once
more, this time confident that the betting was at least eight to three
that a refreshing slumber would be my portion. I rose accordingly, and
was just about to ankle upstairs, when for the second time that night
there was the dickens of a knocking on the front door.

I don't know that you would call me an irascible man. I rather think
not. Ask them about me at the Drones, and they will probably tell you
that Bertram Wooster, wind and weather permitting, is as a general rule
suavity itself. But, as I had been compelled to show Jeeves in the
matter of the banjolele, I can be pushed too far. It was with drawn brow
and cold eye that I now undid the chain. I was just about ready to give
Sergeant Voules-for I assumed that it was he-the ticking-off of a
lifetime.

" Voules," I was preparing to say, " enough is enough. This police
persecution must stop. It is monstrous and uncalled-for. We are not in
Russia, Voules. There are such things, I would have you remember,
Voules, as strong letters to The Times." That, or something like it, is
what I would have said to Sergeant Voules : and what caused me to
refrain was not weakness or pity, but the fact that the man attached to
the knocker wasn't Voules at all. It was J. Washbum Stoker, and he was
regarding me with a sort of hard-boiled fury which, but for the fact
that I had just finished a life-giving snort and knew that his daughter
Pauline was safely off the premises, would undoubtedly have tickled me
up not a little. As it was, I remained tranquil. " Yes ? " I said. I had
packed so much cold surprise and hauteur into the word that a lesser man
might well have keeled over backwards as if hit by a bullet. J. W.
Stoker took it without blinking. He pushed past me into the house, then
turned and grabbed me by the shoulder. " Now, then I " he said. I
disengaged myself coldly. I had to wriggle out of my pyjama jacket to do
so, but I managed it. " I beg your pardon ? " " Where's my daughter ? "
" Your daughter Pauline ? "

" I have only one daughter." " And you ask me where this one daughter
is?" " I know where she is." " Then why did you ask ? " " She's here." "
Then give me my pyjama jacket and tell her to come in," I said. I've
never actually seen a man grind his teeth, so I wouldn't care to state
definitely that this is what J. Washburn Stoker did at this juncture. He
may have done. He may not have done. All I can say authoritatively is
that the muscles stood out on his cheeks and his jaws began to work as
if he were chewing gum. It was not a pleasant spectacle, but thanks to
the fact that I had mixed that whisky and splash particularly strong so
as to facilitate sleep I was enabled to endure it with fortitude and
phlegm. " She's in this house I " he said, continuing to grind, if he
was grinding. " What makes you think that ? " " I'll tell you what makes
me think that. I went to her state-room half an hour ago, and it was
empty." " But why on earth should you suppose she's come here ? " "
Because I know she's infatuated with you." " Not at all. She regards me
as a sister." " I am going to search this house." " Charge right ahead."

He dashed upstairs and I returned to my spot. Not the same spot. Another
one. I felt that in the circumstances a repeat was justified. And
presently my visitor, who had gone up like a lion, came down like a
lamb. I suppose a parent who has barged into a comparative stranger's
cottage in the small hours in search of a missing daughter and finds the
place completely free from daughters, feels more or less of a silly ass.
I know I should, and apparently this Stoker did, for he shuffled a bit
and I could see that a lot of the steam or motive force had gone out of
him. " I owe you an apology, Mr. Wooster." " Don't give it a thought." "
I took it for granted when I found Pauline gone . . ." " Dismiss the
whole thing from your mind. Might have happened to anybody. Faults on
both sides and so forth. You'll have a certain something before you go ?
" It seemed to me that it would be a prudent move to detain him on the
premises for as long as possible, so as to give Pauline plenty of time
to get back to the old boat. But he wouldn't be tempted. His mind was
evidently too occupied for spots. " It beats me where she can have
gone," he said, and you would have been astounded at the mildness and
even chummy pathos with which he spoke. It was as if Bertram had been
some wise old friend to whom he was bringing

his little troubles. The man seemed positively punctured. A child could
have played with him. I endeavoured to throw out a word of cheer. " I
expect she's gone for a swim." " At this time of night ? " " Girls do
rummy things." " And she's a curious girl. This infatuation of hers for
you, for instance." This seemed to me lacking in tact, and I would have
frowned slightly, had I not rememberedthat I wished to disabuse him, if
disabuse is what I'm driving at, of the idea that any such infatuation
existed. " Correct this notion that Miss Stoker is under my fatal
spell," I urged him. " She laughs herself sick at the sight of me." " I
did not get that impression this afternoon." " Oh, that ? Just brother
and sister stuff. It shall't occur again." " It had better not," he said,
returning for a moment to what I might call his earlier manner. " Well,
I won't keep you up, Mr. Wooster. I apologize again for making a darned
fool of myself." I did not quite slap him on the back, but I made a sort
of back-slapping gesture. " Not at all," I said. " Not at all. I wish I
had a quid for every time I've made a darned fool of myself." And on
these cordial terms we parted. He

went down the garden path, and I, having waited up about ten minutes on
the chance that somebody else might come paying a social call, drained
my glass and popped up to bed. Something attempted, something done, had
earned a night's repose, or as near as you can get to a night's repose
in a place full of Stokers and Paulines and Vouleses and Chuffys and
Dobsons. It was not long before the weary eyelids closed and I was off.
It seems almost incredible, considering what the night life of Chuffnell
Regis was like, but the next thing that woke me was not a girl leaping
out from under the bed, her father bounding in with blood in his eye, or
a police sergeant playing ragtime on the knocker, but actually the birds
outside my window heralding in a new day. Well, when I say heralding, it
was about ten-thirty of a fine summer morning, and the sunshine
streaming in through the window seemed to be calling to me to get up and
see what I could do to an egg, a rasher, and the good old pot of coff. I
had a hasty bath and shave and trotted down to the kitchen, full of joie
de vivre.

CHAPTER XI

SINISTER BEHAVIOUR OF A YACHT-OWNER

IT was not until I had finished breakfast and was playing the banjolele
in the front garden that something seemed to whisper reproachfully in my
ear that I had no right to be feeling as perky as this on what was so
essentially the morning after. Dirty work had been perpetrated
overnight. Tragedy had stalked through the home. Scarcely ten hours
earlier I had been a witness of a scene which, if I were the man of fine
fibre I liked to think myself, should have removed all the sunshine from
my life. Two loving hearts, one of which I had been at school and Oxford
with, had gone to the mat together in my presence and having chewed
holes in one another had parted in anger, never-according to present
schedule- to meet again. And here I was, care-free and callous, playing
" I Lift Up My Finger And I Say Tweet-Tweet " on the banjolele. All
wrong. I switched to " Body and Soul," and a sober sadness came upon me.
Something, I felt, must be done. Steps must be taken and avenues
explored. But I could not conceal from myself that the situation was
complex. Usually, in my experikence, when one of my pals has broken off
diplomatic relations with a girl or vice versa they have been staying in
a country house together or at least living in London, where it wasn't
so dashed difficult to arrange a meeting and join their hands with a
benevolent smile. But in this matter of Chuffy and Pauline Stoker,
consider the facts. She was on the yacht, virtually in irons. He was at
the Hall, three miles inland. And anybody who wanted to do any
hand-joining had got to be a much more mobile force than I was. True, my
standing with old Stoker had improved a bit overnight, but there had
been no hint on his part of any disposition to give me the run of his
yacht. I seemed to have about as much chance of getting in touch with
Pauline and endeavouring to reason with her as if she had never come
over from America at all. Quite a prob., I mean to say, and I was still
brooding on it when the garden gate clicked and I perceived Jeeves
walking up the path. " Ah, Jeeves," I said. My manner probably seemed to
him a little distant, and I jolly well meant it to.  What Pauline had
told me about his loose and unconsidered remarks with reference to my
mentalityhad piqued me considerably. It was not the first time he had
said that sort of thing, and one has one's feelings. But if he sensed
the hauteur, he affected to ignore it. His bearing continued placid and
unmoved.

" Good morning, sir." " Have you come from the yacht ? " " Yes, sir." "
Was Miss Stoker there ? " " Yes, sir. She appeared at the breakfast
table. I was somewhat surprised to see her. I had assumed that it washer
intention to remain ashore and establish communication with his
lordship." I laughed shortly. " They established communication, all
right! " " Sir ? " I put down the banjolele and looked at him sternly. "
A nice thing you let all and sundry in for last night! " I said. " Sir ?
" " You can't get out of it by saying * Sir ? ' Why on earth didn't you
stop Miss Stoker from swimming ashore yestreen ? " " I could scarcely
take the liberty, sir, of thwarting the young lady in an enterprise on
which her heart was so plainly set." " She says you urged her on with
word and gesture." " No, sir. I merely expressed sympathy with her
stated aims." " You said I would be delighted to put her up for the
night." " She had already decided to seek refuge in your house, sir. I
did nothing more than hazard the opinion that you would do all that lay
in your power to assist her."

" Well, do you know what the outcome was- the upshot, if I may use the
term ? I was pursued by the police." " Indeed, sir ? " " Yes. Naturally
I couldn't sleep in the house, with every nook and cranny bulging with
blighted girls, so I withdrew to the garage. I had hardly been there ten
minutes before Sergeant Voules arrived." " I have not met Sergeant
Voules, sir." " With him Constable Dobson." " I am acquainted with
Constable Dobson. A nice young fellow. He is keeping company with Mary,
the parlourmaid at the Hall.  A red-haired girl, sir." " Resist the urge
to talk about the colour of parlourmaids' hair, Jeeves," I said coldly.
"It is not germane to the issue. Stick to the point. Which is that I
spent a sleepless night, chased to and fro by the gendarmerie." " I am
sorry to hear that, sir." " Eventually Chuff y arrived. Forming a
totally erroneous diagnosis of the case, he insisted on helping me to my
room, removing my boots, and putting me to bed. He was thus occupied
when Miss Stoker strolled in, wearing my heliotrope pyjamas." " Most
disturbing, sir." " It was. They had the dickens of a row, Jeeves." "
Indeed, sir ? " " Eyes flashed, voices were raised.   Event

ually Chuffy fell downstairs and went moodily out into the night. And
the point is-the nub of the thing is-what is to be done about it?" "It
is a situation that will require careful thought, sir." " You mean you
have not had any ideas yet ? " " I have only this moment heard what
transpired, sir." " True. I was forgetting that. Have you had speech
with Miss Stoker this morning ? " " No, sir." " Well, I can see no point
in your going to the Hall and tackling Chuffy. I have given this matter
a good deal of thought, Jeeves, and it is plain to me that Miss Stoker
is the one who will require the persuasive word, the nicely reasoned
argument-in short, the old oil. Last night Chuffy wounded her deepest
feelings, and it's going to take a lot of spadework to bring her round.
In comparison, the problem of Chuffy is simple. I shouldn't be surprised
if even now he was kicking himself soundly for having behaved so like a
perfect chump. One day of quiet meditation, at the outside, should be
enough to convince him that he wronged the girl. To go and reason with
Chuffy is simply a waste of time. Leave him alone, and Nature will
effect the cure. You had better go straight back to the yacht and see
what you can do at the other end."

J50    THANK YOU, JEEVES " It was not with the intention of interviewing
his lordship that I came ashore, sir. Once more I must reiterate that,
until you informed me just now, I was not aware that anything in the
nature of a rift had occurred. My motive in coming here was to hand you
a note from Mr. Stoker." I was puzzled. " A note ? " " Here it is, sir."
I opened it, still fogged, and read contents. I can't say I felt much
clearer when I had done so. " Rummy, Jeeves." " Sir ? " " This is a
letter of invitation." " Indeed, sir ? " " Absolutely. Bidding me to the
feast. ' Dear Mr. Wooster,' writes Pop Stoker, ' I shall be frightfully
bucked if you will come and mangle a spot of garbage on the boat
to-night. Don't dress.' I give you the gist of the thing. Peculiar,
Jeeves." " Certainly unforeseen, sir." " I forgot to tell you that among
my visitors last night was this same Stoker. He bounded in, shouting
that his daughter was on the premises, and searched the house." "
Indeed, sir ? " " Well, of course, he didn't find any daughter, because
she was already on her way back to the yacht, and he seemed conscious of
having made

rather an ass of himself. His manner on departing was chastened. He
actually spoke to me civilly-a thing I'd have taken eleven to four on
that he didn't know how to do. But does that explain this sudden gush of
hospitality ?I don't think so. Last night he seemed apologetic rather
than matey. There was no indication whatever that he wished to start one
of those great friendships." " I think it is possible that a
conversation which I had this morning with the gentleman, sir . . ." "
Ah I It was you, was it, who caused this pro-Bertram sentiment ? " "
Immediately after breakfast, sir, Mr. Stoker sent for me and inquired if
I had once been in your employment. He said that he fancied that he
recalled having seen me at your apartmentin New York. On my replying in
the affirmative, he proceeded to question me with regard to certain
incidents in the past." " The cats in the bedroom ? " " And the
hot-water bottle episode." " The purloined hat ? " " And also the matter
of your sliding down pipes, sir." " And you said-- ? " " I explained
that Sir Roderick Glossop had taken a biased view of these occurrences,
sir, and proceeded to relate their inner history." " And he-- ? " "
-seemed pleased, sir. He appeared to

think that he had misjudged you. He said that he ought to have known
better than to believe information proceeding from Sir Roderick-to whom
he alluded as a bald-headed old son of a something which for the moment
has escaped my memory. It was, I imagine, shortly after this that he
must have written this letter inviting you to dinner, sir." I was
pleased with the man. When Bertram Wooster finds the old feudal spirit
flourishing, he views it with approval and puts that approval into
words. " Thank you, Jeeves." " Not at all, sir." " You have done well.
Regarding the matter from one aspect, of course, it is negligible
whether Pop Stoker thinks I'm a loony or not. I mean to say, a fellow
closely connected by ties of blood with a man who used to walk about on
his hands is scarcely in a position, where the question of sanity is
concerned, to put on dog and set himself up as an . . ." " Arbiter
elegentiarum, sir ? " " Quite. It matters little to me, therefore, from
one point of view, what old Stoker thinks about my upper storey. One
shrugs the shoulders. But, setting that aside, I admit that this change
of heart is welcome. It has come at the right time. I shall accept his
invitation. I regard it as ..." " The amende honorable, sir ? " " I was
going to say olive branch."

" Or olive branch. The two terms are virtually synonymous. The French
phrase I would be inclined to consider perhaps slightly the more exact
in the circumstances-carrying with it, as it does, the implication of
remorse, of the desire to make restitution. But if you prefer the
expression ' olive branch,' by all means employ it, sir." " Thank you,
Jeeves." " Not at all, sir." " I suppose you know that you have made me
completely forget what I was saying ? " " I beg your pardon, sir. I
should not have interrupted. If I recollect, you were observing that it
was your intention to accept Mr. Stoker's invitation." " Ah, yes. Very
well, then. I shall accept his invitation-whether as an olive branch or
an amende honorable is wholly immaterial and doesn't matter a single,
solitary damn, Jeeves. . . ." " No, sir." " And shall I tell you why I
shall accept his invitation ? Because it will enable me to get together
with Miss Stoker and plead Chuffy's cause." " I understand, sir." " Not
that it's going to be easy. I hardly know what line to take." " If I
might make the suggestion, sir, I should imagine that the young lady
would respond most satisfactorily to the statement that his lordship was
in poor health."

" She knows he's as fit as a fiddle." " Poor health induced since her
parting from him by distress of mind." " Ah I I get you. Distraught ? "
" Precisely, sir." i " Contemplating self-destruction ? " "Exactly,
sir." " Her gentle heart would be touched by that, you think ? " " Very
conceivably, sir." " Then that is the vein I shall work. I see this
invitation says dinner at seven. A bit on the early side, what ? " " I
presume that the arrangements have been made with a view to the
convenience of Master Dwight, sir. This would be the birthday party of
which I informed you yesterday." " Of course, yes. With nigger minstrel
entertainmentto follow. They are coming all right, I take it ? " " Yes,
sir. The Negroes will be present." " I wonder if there would be any
chance of a word with the one who plays the banjo. There are certain
points in his execution I would like to consult him about." " No doubt
it could be arranged, sir." He seemed to speak with a certain reserve,
and I could see that he felt that the conversation had taken an
embarrassing turn. Probing the old sore, I mean. Well, the best thing to
do on these occasions, I've always found, is to be open and direct.

" I'm making great progress with the banjo-lele, Jeeves." " Indeed, sir
? " " Would yoA like me to play you ' What Is This Thing Called Love ' ?
" " No, sir." " Your views on the instrument are unchanged ? " " Yes,
sir." " Ah, well! A pity we could not see eye to eye on that matter." "
Yes, sir." " Still, it can't be helped. No hard feelings." " No, sir." "
Unfortunate, though." " Most unfortunate, sir." " Well, tell old Stoker
that I shall be there at seven prompt with my hair in a braid." " Yes,
sir." " Or should I write a brief, civil note ? " " No, sir.  I was
instructed to bring back a verbal reply." " Right ho, then." " Very
good, sir." At seven on the dot, accordingly, I stepped aboard the yacht
and handed the hat and light overcoat to a passing salt. It was with
mixed feelings that I did so, for conflicting emotions were warring in
the bosom. On the one hand, the keen ozone of Chuffnell Regis had given
me a good appetite, and I knew from recollections of his hosp. in New
York that J. Washbum Stoker

did his guests well. On the other, I had never been what you might call
tranquil in his society, and I was not looking forward to it
particularly now.   You might put it like this if you cared to-The
fleshly or corporeal Wooster was anticipating the hinge with pleasure,
but his spiritual side rather recoiled a bit. In my experience, there
are two kinds of elderly American. One, the stout and hornrimmed, is
matiness itself. He greets you as if you were a favourite son, starts
agitating the cocktail shaker before you know where you are, slips a
couple into you with a merry laugh, claps you on the back, tells you a
dialect story about two Irishmen named Pat and Mike, and, in a word,
makes life one grand, sweet song. The other, which runs a good deal to
the cold, grey stare and the square jaw, seems to view the English
cousin with concern. It is not Elfin. It broods. It says little. It
sucks in its breath in a pained way. And every now and again you catch
its eye, and it is like colliding with a raw oyster. Of this latter
class or species J. Washbum Stoker had always been the perpetual vice
president. It was with considerable relief, therefore, that I found that
to-night he had eased off a bit. While not precisely affable, he gave a
distinct impression of being as nearly affable as he knew how. " I hope
you have no objection to a quiet

family dinner^ Mr. Wooster ? " he said, having shaken the hand. " Rather
not. Dashed good of you to ask me," I replied, not to be outdone in the
courtesies. " Just you and Dwight and myself. My daughter is lying down.
She has a headache." This was something of a jar. In fact, it seemed to
me to take what you might describe as the whole meaning out of this
expedition. " Oh ? " I said. " I am afraid she found her exertions last
night a little too much for her," said Pop Stoker, with something of the
old fishlike expression in the eye : and, reading between the lines, I
rather gathered that Pauline had been sent to bed without her supper, in
disgrace. Old Stoker was not one of your broad-minded, modem parents.
There was, as I had had occasion to notice before, a distinct touch of
the stern and rockbound old Pilgrim Father about him. A man, in short,
who, in his dealings with his family, believed in the firm hand.
Observing that eye, I found it a bit difficult t.o shape the kindly
inquiries. " Then you-er . . . sheer-- ? " " Yes. You were quite
tfight, Mr. Wooster. She had gone for a swim." And once more, as he
spoke, I caught a flash of the fishlike. I could see that Pauline's
stock was far from high this p.m., and I would have liked to put in a
word for the poor young

blighter. But beyond an idea of saying that girls would be girls, which
I abandoned, I could think of nothing. At this moment, however, a
steward of sorts announced dinner, and we pushed in. I must say that
there were moments during that dinner when I regretted that occurrences
which could not be overlooked had resulted in the absence from the board
of the Hall party. You will question this statement, no doubt, inclining
to the view that all a dinner party needs to make it a success is for
Sir Roderick Glossop, the Dowager Lady Chuffnell, and the latter's son,
Seabury, not to be there. Nevertheless, I stick to my opinion. There was
a certain uncomfortable something about the atmosphere which more or
less turned the food to ashes in my mouth. If it hadn't been that this
man, this Stoker, had gone out of his way ,to invite me, I should have
said that I was giving him a pain in the neck. Most of the time he just
sat and champed in a sort of dark silence, like a man with something on
his mind. And when he did speak it was with a marked what-d'you-call-it.
I mean to say, not actually out of the corner of his mouth, but very
near it. I did my best to promote a flow of conversation. But it was not
till young Dwight had left the table and we were lighting the cigars
that I seemed to hit on a topic that interested, elevated, and amused. "
A fine boat, this, Mr. Stoker," I said.

For the first time, something approaching animation came into the face.
" Not many better." " I've never done much yachting. And, except at
Cowes one year, I've never been on a boat this size." He puffed at his
cigar. An eye came swivelling   round in my direction, then pushed off
again. " There are advantages in having a yacht." " Oh, rather." "
Plenty of room to put your friends up." " Heaps." " And, when you've got
'em, they can't get away so easy as they could ashore." It seemed a
rummy way of looking at it, but I supposed a man like Stoker would
naturally have a difficulty in keeping guests. I mean, I took it that he
had had painful experiences in the past. And nothing, of course, makes a
host look sillier to have somebody arrive at his country house for a
long visit and then to find, round about lunch-time the second day, that
he has made a quiet sneak for the railway station. " Care to look over
the boat ? " he asked. " Fine," I said. " I'd be glad to show it to you.
This is the main saloon we're in." " Ah," I said. " I'll show you the
staterooms." He rose, and we went along passages and

l6o    THANK YOU, JEEVES things. We came to a door. He opened it and
switched on the light. " This is one of our larger guest-rooms." " Very
nice, too." " Go in and take a look round." Well, there wasn't much to
see that I couldn't focus from the threshold, but one has to do the
civil thing on these occasions. I toddled over and gave the bed a prod.
And, as I did so, the door slammed. And when I nipped round, the old boy
had disappeared. Rather rummy, was my verdict. In fact, distinctly
rummy. I went across and gave the handle a twist. The bally door was
locked. " Boy I " I called. No answer. " Hey I " I said. " Mr. Stoker."
Only silence, and lots of it. I went and sat down on the bed. This
seemed to me to want thinking out.

CHAPTER XII

START  SMEARING,  JEEVES!

I CAN'T say I liked the look of things. In addition to being at a loss
and completelyunable to follow the scenario, I was also distinctly on
the uneasy side. I don't know if you ever read a book called " The
Masked Seven" ? It's one of those goose-fleshers and there's a chap in
it, Drexdale Yeats, a private investigator, who starts looking for clues
in a cellar one night, and he's hardly collected a couple
when-bingo-there's a metallicclang and there he is with the trapdoor
shut and someone sniggering nastily on the other side. For a moment his
heart stood still, and so did mine. Excluding the nasty snigger (which
Stoker might quite well have uttered without my hearing it), it seemed
to me that my case was more or less on all fours with his. Like jolly
old Drexdale, I sensed some lurking peril. Of course, mark you, if
something on these lines had occurred at some country house where I was
staying, and the hand that had turned the key had been that of a pal of
mine, a ready explanation would have presented itself. I should have set
it down as a spot of hearty humour. My circle of friends is crammed with
fellows who would consider it dashed diverting to bung you into a room
and lock the door. But on the present occasion I could not see this
being the solution. There was nothing roguish about old Stoker. Whatever
view you might takeofthis fishy-eyed man, you would never call him
playful. If Pop Stoker put his guests in cold storage, his motive in so
doing was sinister. Little wonder, then, that as he sat on the edge of
the bed pensively sucking at his cigar, Bertram was feeling uneasy. The
thought of Stoker's second cousin, George, forced itself upon the mind.
Dotty, beyond a question. And who knew but what that dottiness might not
run in the family ? It didn't seem such a long step, I mean to say, from
a Stoker locking people in state-rooms to a Stoker with slavering jaws
and wild, animal eyes coming back and doing them a bit of no good with
the meat axe. When, therefore, there was a click and the door opened,
revealing mine host on the threshold, I confess that I rather drew
myself together somewhat and pretty well prepared myself for the worst.
His manner, however, was reassuring. Puff-faced, yes, but not
fiend-in-human-shape-y. The eyes were steady and the mouth lacked foam.
And he was still smoking his cigar, which I felt was promising. I mean,
I've never met any homicidal loonies, but I should imagine that the
first thing they would do before setting about a fellow would be to
throw away their cigars.

START SMEARING, JEEVES! " Well, Mr. Wooster ? " I never have known quite
what to answer when blokes say " Well ? " to me, and I didn't now. " I
must apologize for leaving you so abruptly," proceeded the Stoker, " but
I had to get the concert started." " I'm looking forward to the
concert," I said. " A pity," said Pop Stoker. " Because you're going to
miss it." He eyed me musingly. " There was a time, when I was younger,
when I would have broken your neck," he said. I didn't like the trend
the conversation was taking. After all, a man is as young as he feels,
and there was no knowing that he wouldn't suddenly get one of these-what
do you call them ?-illusions of youth. I had an uncle once, aged
seventy-six, who, under the influence of old crusted port, would climb
trees. " Look here," I said civilly but with what you might call a
certain urgency, " I know it's trespassing on your time, but could you
tell me what all this is about ? " " You don't know ? " " No, I'm hanged
if I do." " And you can't guess ? " " No, I'm dashed if I can." " Then I
had best tell you from the beginning. Perhaps you recall my visiting you
last night ? " I said I hadn't forgotten. " I thought my daughter was in
your cottage. I searched it. I did not find her."

I twiddled a hand magnanimously. " We all make mistakes." He nodded. "
Yes. So I went away. And do you know what happened after I left you, Mr.
Wooster ? I was coming out of the garden gate when your local police
sergeant stopped me. He seemed suspicious." I waved my cigar
sympathetically. " Something will have to be done about Voules," I said.
" The man is a pest. I hope you were pretty terse with him." " Not at
all. I supposed he was only doing his duty. I told him who I was and
where I lived. On learning that I came from this yacht, he asked me to
accompany him to the police station.'' I was amazed. " What bally cheek
I You mean he pinched you ? " " No, he was not arresting me. He wished
me to identify someone who was in custody." " Bally cheek, all the same.
What on earth did he bother you with that sort of job for ? Besides, how
on earth could you identify anyone ? I mean, a stranger in these parts,
and all that sort of thing." " In this instance it was simple.   The
prisoner happened to be my daughter, Pauline." " What! " " Yes, Mr.
Wooster. It seems that this man Voules was in his back garden late last
night -it adjoins yours, if you recollect-and he saw

a figure climbing out of one of the lower windows of your house. He ran
down the garden and caught this individual. It was my daughter Pauline.
She was wearing a swimming suit and an overcoat belonging to you. So,
you see, you were right when you told me she had probably gone for a
swim." He knocked the ash carefully off his cigar. I didn't need to do
it to mine. " She must have been with you a few moments before I
arrived. Now, perhaps, Mr. Wooster, you can understand what I meant when
I said that, when I was a younger man, I would have broken your neck." I
hadn't anything much to say. One hasn't sometimes. " Nowadays, I'm more
sensible," he proceeded. " I take the easier way. I say to myself that
Mr. Wooster is not the son-in-law I would have chosen personally, but if
my hand has been forced that is all there is to it. Anyway, you're not
the gibbering idiot I thought you at one time, I'm glad to say. I have
heard since that those stories which caused me to break off Pauline's
engagement to you in New York were untrue. So we can consider everything
just as it was three months ago. We will look upon that letter of
Pauline's as unwritten." You can't reel when you're sitting on a bed.
Otherwise, I would have done so, and right heartily. I was feeling as if
a hidden hand had socked me in the solar plexus.

l68    THANK YOU, JEEVES from my son's birthday party, can I, even for
the pleasure of talking to you ? " He slipped through the door and oozed
out, and I was alone.

Now, it so happened that twice in my career I had had the experience of
sitting- in a cell and listening to keys turning in locks. The first
time was the one to which Chuffy had alluded, when I had been compelled
to assure the magistrate that I was one of the West Dulwich Plimsolls.
The other-and both, oddly enough, had occurred on Boat Race night-was
when I had gone into partnership with my old friend, Oliver Sipperley,
to pick up a policeman'shelmet as a souvenir, only to discover that
there was a policeman inside it. On both these occasions I had ended up
behind the bars, and you might suppose that an old lag like myselfwould
have been getting used to it by now. But this present hinge was
something quite different. Before, I had been faced merely with the
prospect of a moderate fine. Now, a life sentence stared me in the
eyeball. A casual observer, noting Pauline's preeminentpulchritude and
bearing in mind the fact that she was heiress to a sum amounting to more
than fifty million fish, might have considered that in writhing, as I
did, in agony of spirit at the prospect of having to marry her, I was
making a lot of fuss about nothing. Such an observer, no doubt, would
have wished that

he had half my complaint. But the fact remains that I did writhe, and
writhe pretty considerably. Apart from the fact that I didn't want to
marry Pauline Stoker, there was the dashed serious snag that I knew
jolly well that she didn't want to marry me. She might have ticked him
off with great breadth and freedom at their recent parting, but I was
certain that deep down in her the old love for Chuffy still persisted
and only needed a bit of corkscrew work to get it to the surface again.
?And Chuffy, for all that he had hurled himself downstairs and stalked
out into the night, still loved her. So that what it amounted to, when
you came to tot up the pros and cons, was that by marrying this girl I
should not only be landing myself in the soup but breaking both her
heart and that of the old school friend. And if that doesn't justify a
fellow in writhing, I should very much like to know what does. Only one
gleam of light appeared in the darkness-viz. that old Stoker had said
that he was sending his man along with the necessaries for the night. It
might be that Jeeves would find the way. Though how even Jeeves could
get me out of the current jam was more than I could envisage. It was
with the feeling that no bookie would hesitate to lay a hundred to one
against that I finished my cigar and threw myself on the bed. I was
still picking at the coverlet when the door opened and a respectful
cough informed

me that he was in my midst. His arms were full of clothing of various
species. He laid these on a chair and regarded me with what I might
describe as commiseration. " Mr. Stoker instructed me to bring your
pyjamas, sir." I emitted a hollow g. "It is not pyjamas I need, Jeeves,
but the wings of a dove. Are you abreast of the latest development ? " "
Yes sir." " Who told you ? " " My informant was Miss Stoker, sir." "
You've been having a talk with her ? " " Yes, sir. She related to me an
outline of the plans which Mr. Stoker had made." The first spot of hope
I had had since the start of this ghastly affair now shot through my
bosom. " By Jove, Jeeves, an idea occurs to me. Things aren't quite as
bad as I thought they were." " No, sir ? " " No. Can't you see ? It's
all very well for old Stoker to talker--" " Glibly, sir ? ' " Airily."
" Airily or glibly, sir, whichever you prefer." " It's all very well for
old Stoker to talk with airy glibness about marrying us off, but he
can't do it, Jeeves. Miss Stoker will simply put her ears back and
refuse to cooperate.

You can lead a horse to the altar, Jeeves, but you can't make it drink."
" In my recent conversation with the young lady, sir, I did not receive
the impression that she was antagonistic to the arrangements." " What! "
" No, sir. She seemed, if I may say so, resigned and defiant." " She
couldn't be both." " Yes, sir. Miss Stoker's attitude was partly one of
listlerisness, as if she felt that nothing mattered now, but I gathered
that she was also influenced by the thought that in contracting a
matrimonial alliance with you, she would be making-shall I say, a
defiant gesture at his lordship." " A defiant gesture ? " " Yes, sir." "
Scoring off him, you mean ? " " Precisely, sir." " What a damn silly
idea. The girl must be cuckoo." " Feminine psychology is admittedly odd,
sir. The poet Pope . . ." " Never mind about the poet Pope, Jeeves." "
No, sir." " There are times when one wants to hear all about the poet
Pope and times when one doesn't." " Very true, sir." " The point is, I
seem to be up against it.

If that's the way she feels, nothing can save me. I am a pipped man." "
Yes, sir. Unless--" " Unless ? " " Well, I was wondering, sir, if on the
whole it would not be best if you were to obviate all unpleasantness and
embarrassment by removing yourself from the yacht." " What! " " Yacht,
sir." " I know you said ' Yacht.' And I said * What! ' Jeeves," I went
on, and there was a quiver in the voice, "it is not like you to come in
here at a crisis like this with straws in your hair and talk absolute
drip. How the devil can I leave the yacht ? " " The matter could be
readily arranged, if you are agreeable, sir. It would, of course,
involve certain inconveniences . . ." " Jeeves," I said," short of
squeezing through the port-hole, which can't be done, I am ready to
undergo any little passing inconvenience if it will get me off this
bally floating dungeon and restore me to terra firma." I paused and
regardedhim anxiously. "This is not mere gibbering,is it ? You really
have a scheme ? " " Yes, sir. The reason I hesitated to advance it was
that I feared you might not approve of the idea of covering your face
with boot polish." " What I " " Time being of the essence, sir, I think
it would not be advisable to employ burnt cork."

I turned my face to the wall. It was the end. " Leave me, Jeeves," I
said. " You've been having a couple." And I'm not sure that what cut
me'like a knife, more even than any agony at my fearful predicament, was
not the realization that my original suspicions had been correct and
that, after all these years, that superb brain had at last come unstuck.
For, though I had tactfully affected to set all this talk of burnt cork
and boot polish down to mere squiffiness, in my heart I was convinced
that the fellow had gone off his onion. He coughed. " If you will permit
me to explain, sir. The entertainers are just concluding their
performance. In a short time they will be leaving the boat." I sat up.
Hope dawned once more, and remorse gnawed me like a bull pup worrying a
rubber bone at the thought that I should have so misjudged this man. I
saw what that giant brain was driving at. " You mean--? " " I have a
small tin of boot polish here, sir.         y I brought it with me in
anticipation of this move. It would be a simple task to apply it to your
face and hands in such a manner as to         , create the illusion,
should you encounter Mr. Stoker, that you were a member of this troupe
of negroid entertainers."                             ' ' " Jeeves! " "
The suggestion I would make, sir, is that, if       ^ I you are amenable
to what I propose, we should         'i i

wait until these black-faced persons have left for the shore. I could
then inform the captain that one of them, a personal friend of mine, had
lingered behind to talk with me and so had missed the motor launch. I
have little doubt that he would accord me permission to row you ashore
in one of the smaller boats." I stared at the man. Years of intimate
acquaintance, the memory of swift ones he had pulled in the past, the
knowledge that he lived largely on fish, thus causing his brain to be
about as full of phosphorus as the human brain can jolly well stick, had
not prepared me for this supreme effort. " Jeeves," I said, " as I have
so often had occasion to say before, you stand alone." " Thank you,
sir." " Others abide our question. Thou art free." " I endeavour to give
satisfaction, sir." " You think it would work ? " "Yes, sir." " The
scheme carries your personal guarantee ? " " Yes, sir." " And you say
you have the stuff handy ? " " Yes, sir." I flung myself into a chair
and turned the features ceilingwards. " Then start smearing, Jeeves," I
said, " and continue to smear till your trained senses tell you that you
have smeared enough."

CHAPTER XIII

A VALET EXCEEDS HIS DUTIES

I MUST say, as a general rule, I always bar stories where the chap who's
telling them skips lightly from point to point and leaves you to work it
out for yourself as best you can just what has happened in the interim.
I mean to say, the sort of story where Chapter Ten ends with the hero
trapped in the undergroundden and Chapter Eleven starts with him being
the life and soul of a gay party at the Spanish Embassy. And, strictly
speaking, I suppose, I ought at this juncture to describe step by step
the various moves which led me to safety and freedom, if you see what I
mean. But when a tactician like Jeeves is in charge of the arrangements,
it all seems so unnecessary. Simply a waste of time. If Jeeves sets out
to shift a fellow from Spot A to Spot B, from a state-room on a yacht,
for instance, to the shore in front of his cottage, he just does it. No
hitches.  No difficulties.  No fuss.  No excitement. Absolutely nothing
to report. I mean, one just reaches for the nearest tin of boot polish,
blacks one's face, strolls across the deck, saunters down the gangway,
waves a

I7S

genial farewell to such members of the crew as may be leaning over the
side, spitting into the water, steps into a boat, and in about ten
minutes there one is, sniffing the cool night air on the mainland. A
smooth bit of work. I mentioned this to Jeeves as we tied up at the
landing stage, and he said it was extremely kind of me to say so. " Not
at all, Jeeves," I said. " I repeat. An exceedingly smooth bit of work,
and a credit to you." " Thank you, sir." " Thank you, Jeeves. And now
what ? " We had left the landing stage and were standing on the road
that ran past my garden gate. All was still. The stars twinkled above.
We were alone with Nature. There was not even a sign of Police-Sergeant
Voules or Constable Dobson. Chuffnell Regis slept, as you might say. And
yet, looking at my watch, I found that the hour was only a few minutes
after nine. It gave me quite a start, I recall. What with stress of
emotion, so to speak, and the spirit having been on the rack, as it
were, I had got the impression that the night was particularly well
advanced, and wouldn't have been surprised to find it one in the
morning. " And now what, Jeeves ? " I said. I noted a soft smile playing
over the finely chiselled face and resented same. I was grateful to the
man, of course, for having saved me from the fate that is worse than
death, but one

has to check this sort of thing. I gave him one of my looks. " Something
is tickling you, Jeeves ? " I said, coldly. " I beg your pardon, sir. I
had not intended to betray amusement, but I could not help being a
little entertained by your appearance. It is somewhat odd, sir." " Most
people would look somewhat odd with boot polish all over them, Jeeves."
" Yes, sir." " Greta Garbo, to name but one." " Yes, sir." " Or Dean
Inge." " Very true, sir." " Then spare me these personal comments,
Jeeves, and reply to my question." " I fear I have forgotten what it was
that you asked me, sir." " My question was-and is-' Now what ? ' " " You
desire a suggestion respecting your next move, sir ? " " I do." " I
would advise repairing to your cottage, sir, and cleansing your face and
hands." " So far, sound. It is just what I was thinking of doing." "
After which, if I might hazard the advice, sir, I think it would be well
if you were to catch the next train to London." " Again, sound." " Once
there, sir, I would advocate a visit to m

some Continental resort, such as Paris or Berlin or even, perhaps, as
far afield as Italy." " Or Sunny Spain ? " " Yes, sir. Possibly Spain."
" Or even Egypt ? " " You would find Egypt somewhat warm at this season
of the year, sir." " Not half so warm as England, if Pop Stoker
re-establishes connection." " Very true, sir." " There's a lad, Jeeves I
There's a tough citizen I There's a fellow who chews broken glass and
drives nails into the back of his neck instead of using a collar stud I
" " Mr. Stoker's personality is decidedly forceful,sir." " Bless my
soul, Jeeves, I can remember the time when I thought Sir Roderick
Glossop a man-eater. And even my Aunt Agatha. They pale in comparison,
Jeeves. Positively pale. Which brings us to a consideration of your
position. Do you intend to go back to the yacht and continue mingling
with that gruesome bird ?" " No, sir. I fancy Mr. Stoker would not
receive me cordially. It will be readily apparent to a gentleman of his
intelligence, when he discoversyour flight, that I must have been
instrumental in assisting you to leave the boat. I shall return to his
lordship's employment, sir." " He'll be glad to get you back." " It is
very kind of you to say so, sir." '* Not at all, Jeeves. Anybody would
be."

" Thank you, sir." " Then you'll push on to the Hall ? " " Yes, sir." "
A very hearty good night, then. I will drop you a line to let you know
where I am and how I have made out." " Thank you, sir." " Thank you,
Jeeves. There will be a slight testimonial of my appreciation wedged
into the envelope." " Extremely generous of you, sir." " Generous,
Jeeves ? Do you realize that if it hadn't been for you I should now be
behind locked doors on that bloodsome yacht ? But you know how I feel."
" Yes, sir." " By the way, is there a train to London to-night ? " "
Yes, sir. The 10.21. You should be able to catch it comfortably, sir. I
fear it is not an express." I waved a hand. " As long as it moves,
Jeeves, as long as the wheels revolve and it trickles from point to
point, it will do me nicely. Good night, then." " Good night, sir."

It was with uplifted heart that I entered the cottage. Nor was my
satisfaction lessened by the discovery that Brinkley had not yet
returned.As an employer, I might look a bit askance at the idea of the
blighter being given

l8o    THANK YOU, JEEVES the evening off and taking a night and a day,
but in the capacity of a private citizen with boot polish on his face, I
was all for it. On such occasions, solitude is, as Jeeves would have
said, of the essence. I went up to the bedroom with all possible speed,
and poured water from the jug into the basin, bath-rooms not being
provided in Chuffy's little homes. This done, I dipped the face and
instituted a hearty soaping. Then, having rinsed thoroughly, I moved to
the mirror, and picture my chagrin and dismay when I discovered that I
was still as black as ever. You might say I had hardly so much as
scratched the surface. These are the moments that make a fellow think a
bit, and it wasn't long before I saw where the snag was. I remembered
hearing or reading somewhere that in crises like this you have to have
butter. I was just about to go downstairs and get some, when suddenly I
heard a noise. Now, a fellow in my position-virtually the hunted stag, I
mean to say-has got to take considerable thought as to what his next
move shall be when he hears a noise on the premises. Quite possibly, I
felt, this might be J. Washburn Stoker baying on the trail, for if he
had happened to drop into the state-room and observe that it was empty,
the first thing he would do would be to come dashing to my cottage. So
there was nothing of the lion leaping from its den

A VALET EXCEEDS HIS DUTIES l8l about the way I now left the bedroom, but
rather a bit more than a suggestion of a fairly diffident snail poking
its head out of its shell during a thunderstorm. For the nonce, I merely
stood in the doorway and listened. There was plenty to listen to.
Whoever was making the row was down in the sitting-room, and he seemed
to me to be throwing the furniture about. And I think it was the
reflection that a keen, practical man like Pop Stoker, if on my track,
would hardly waste time doing this sort of thing that braced me at
length to the point of tiptoeing to the banisters and peeping over. What
I describe as the sitting-room, I must tell you, was really more in the
nature of a sort of lounge-hall. It was rather liberally furnished for
such a smallish place, and contained a table, a grandfather clock, a
sofa, two chairs, and from one to three glass cases with stuffed birds
in them. From where I stood, looking over the banisters, I had a
complete view of the entire lay-out. It was fairly dim down there, but I
could see pretty well, because there was an oil lamp burning on the
mantelpiece. By its light I was able to observe that the sofa had been
upset, the two chairs thrown through the window, and the stuffed-bird
cases smashed; and at the moment of going to press, a shadowy form was
in the far corner, wrestling with the grandfather clock. It was
difficult to say with any certainty which of the pair was getting the
better of it.

l82    THANK YOU, JEEVES If in sporting vein, I think I should have been
inclined to put my money on the clock. But I was not in sporting vein. A
sudden twist of the combatants had revealed to me the face of the
shadowy f., and with a considerable rush of emotion I perceived that it
was Brinkley. Like a sheep wandering back to the fold, this blighted
Bolshevik had rolled home, twenty-four hours late, plainly stewed to the
gills. All the householder awoke in me. I forgot that it was injudicious
of me to allow myself to be seen. All I could think of was that this
bally Five-Year-Planner was smashing up the Wooster home. " Brinkley I "
I bellowed. I imagine he thought at first that it was the voice of the
clock, for he flung himself upon it with renewed energy. Then, suddenly,
his eye fell on me, and he broke away and stood staring. The clock,
after rocking to and fro for a moment, settled into the perpendicular
with a jerk and, having struck thirteen, relapsed into silence. "
Brinkley I " I repeated, and was about to add " Dash it! " when a sort
of gleam came into his eyes, the gleam of the man who understandsall.
For an instant he stood there, goggling. Then he uttered a cry. " Lor
lumme I The Devil! " And, snatching up a carving knife which he appeared
to have placed on the mantelpiece with a sort of idea that you never
knew when

these things may not come in useful, he came bounding up the stairs.
Well, it was a close thing. If I ever have       ^ grandchildren-which,
at the moment, seems a longish shot-and they come clustering round my
knee of an evening for a story, the one I shall tell them is about my
getting back into the bedroom just one split second ahead of that
carving knife. And if as a result they have convulsions during the night
and wake up screaming, they will have got some rough idea of their aged
relative's emotions at this juncture. To say that Bertram, even when he
had slammed the door, locked it, shoved a chair against it, and a bed
against the chair, felt wholly at his ease would be a wilful
overstatement. I cannot put my mental attitude more clearly than       '
by saying that, if J. Washburn Stoker had happened to drop in at that
moment, I would       t have welcomed him like a brother. Brinkley was
at the keyhole, begging me to come out and let him ascertain the colour
of my insides ; and, by Jove, what seemed to me to add the final touch
to the whole unpleasant        ij ness was that he spoke in the same
respectful       jj voice he always used. Kept calling me " Sir,"
??too, which struck me as dashed silly. I mean, if you're asking a
fellow to come out of a room so that you can dismember him with a
carving knife, it's absurd to tack a " Sir " on to every sentence. The
two things don't go together. At this point it seemed to me that my
first

move ought to be to clear up the obvious misunderstandingthat existed in
his mind. I put the lips to the woodwork. " It's all right, Brinkley." "
It will be if you come out, sir," he said civilly. " I mean, I'm not the
Devil." " Oh, yes, you are, sir." " I'm not, I tell you." " Oh, yes,
sir." " I'm Mr. Wooster." He uttered a piercing cry. " He's got Mr.
Wooster in there I " You don't get the old-fashioned soliloquy much
nowadays, so I took it that he was addressing some third party. And,
sure enough, there was a sort of rumbling puffing and a tonsil-ridden
voice spoke. " What's all this ? " It was my sleepless neighbour. Police
Sergeant Voules.

My first emotion on realising that the Law was in our midst was one of
pretty sizeable relief. There were lots of things about this vigilant
man I didn't like-his habit of poking his nose into people's garages and
potting sheds, for one-but, whatever you might feel about some of his
habits, there was no denying that he was a useful chap to have around in
a situation like this. Tackling a loony valet is not everyone's job. You
need a certain personality and presence. These this outsize

guardian of the peace had got in full measure. And I was just about to
urge him on with encouraging noises through the door, when something
seemed to whisper to me that it would be more prudent to refrain. You
see, the whole thing about these vigilant police sergeants is that they
detain and question. Finding Bertram Wooster in the equivocal position
of going about the place with his face blacked up. Sergeant Voules would
not just pass the thing off with a shrug of the shoulders and a light
good night. He would, as I say, detain and question. Recalling our
encounters of the previous night, he would view with concern. He would
insist on my accompanying him to the police station while he sent for
Chuffy to come and advise what to do for the best. Doctors would be
summoned, ice packs applied. With the result that I would most certainly
be confined to the neighbourhood quite long enough for old Stoker to
discover that my room was empty and my bed had not been slept in and to
come rushing ashore to scoop me up and carry me back to the yacht again.
On second thoughts, therefore, I said nothing. Merely breathed softly
through the nose. Outside the door, snappy dialogue was in progress ;
and I give you my honest word that, if I hadn't had authoritative
information to the contrary, I should have said that this extraordinary
bird, Brinkley, was as sober as a tee total Girl Guide. All that one of
the biggest toots in

l86    THANK YOU, JEEVES history had done to him was to put a sort of
precise edge on his speech and cause him to articulate with a crystal
clearness which was more like a silver bell than anything. " The Devil
is in there, murdering Mr. Wooster, sir," he was saying. And, except in
radio announcers, I've never heard anything more beautifully modulated.
You would call that a fairly sensational announcement, I suppose ; but
it didn't seem to register immediately with Sergeant Voules. The
sergeant was one of those men who like to take things in their proper
order and tidy up as they go along ; and for the moment, it seemed, he
was interested exclusively in the carving knife. " What are you doing
with that knife ? " he inquired. Nothing could have been more civil and
deferential than Brinkley's response. " I caught it up to attack the
Devil, sir." " What devil ? " asked Sergeant Voules, taking the next
point in rotation. " A black devil, sir." " Black ? " " Yes, sir. He is
in this room, murdering Mr. Wooster." Now that he had at last got round
to it, Sergeant Voules seemed interested. " In this room ? " " Yes,
sir."

" We can't have that sort o( Sergeant Voules, rather austerely, ^ling,"
said him click his tongue.           And I heard There was an
authoritative rap                      J " Oy! "                  ^ the
door.           I I preserved a prudent silence, } " Excuse me, sir," I
heard Brim                      ' from the sound of feet on the st-ty
say, and that he was leaving our little 's I took it Possibly to have
another go at tli( Wposium.           'i Knuckles smote the
woodworh'ock.                | " In there. Oy I "          ^in. I made
no remark. " Are you in there, Mr. Woost^ I was beginning to feel that
this'" was a bit one-sided, but I didn't s^lversation be done about it.
I moved totli( Miat could looked out, more with the idea ^Qdow and
something to pass the time thanjttst doing and it was now-and only now,
if filing else, me-that the idea came to me ([, ^'U believe be possible
to edge away fromi'it might          J| scene.
Itwasn'tsomuchofadropL^stasteiu]           ] and with a good deal of
relief I s(, Aground, knots in a sheet with a view tothi^d to tie It was
at this moment thatlk^ay. Voules suddenly give tongue.   Sergeant

" Oy! " And from down below Brinldey's. " Sir ? " ^e. " Look out what
you're doingA ^lamp."

l86    THANK YOU, JEEVES history had done to him was to put a sort of
precise edge on his speech and cause him to articulate with a crystal
clearness which was more like a silver bell than anything. " The Devil
is in there, murdering Mr. Wooster, sir," he was saying. And, except in
radio announcers, I've never heard anything more beautifully modulated.
You would call that a fairly sensational announcement, I suppose ; but
it didn't seem to register immediately with Sergeant Voules. The
sergeant was one of those men who like to take things in their proper
order and tidy up as they go along; and for the moment, it seemed, he
was interested exclusively in the carving knife. " What are you doing
with that knife ? " he inquired. Nothing could have been more civil and
deferential than Brinkley's response. " I caught it up to attack the
Devil, sir." " What devil ? " asked Sergeant Voules, taking the next
point in rotation. " A black devil, sir." " Black ? " " Yes, sir. He is
in this room, murdering Mr. Wooster." Now that he had at last got round
to it, Sergeant Voules seemed interested. " In this room ? " " Yes,
sir." " Murdering Mr. Wooster ? "

" Yes, sir." "We can't have that sort of thing," said Sergeant Voules,
rather austerely. And I heard him click his tongue. There was an
authoritative rap on the door. " Oy! " I preserved a prudent silence. "
Excuse me, sir," I heard Brinkley say, and from the sound of feet on the
stairs I took it that he was leaving our little symposium. Possibly to
have another go at the clock. Knuckles smote the woodwork again. " In
there. Oy I " I made no remark. " Are you in there, Mr. Wooster ? " I
was beginning to feel that this conversation was a bit one-sided, but I
didn't see what could be done about it. I moved to the window and looked
out, more with the idea of just doing something to pass the time than
anything else, and it was now-and only now, if you'll believe me-that
the idea came to me that it might be possible to edge away from this
distasteful scene. It wasn't so much of a drop to the ground, and with a
good deal of relief I started to tie knots in a sheet with a view to the
getaway. It was at this moment that I heard Sergeant Voules suddenly
give tongue. " Oy! " And from down below Brinkley's voice. " Sir ? "
"Look out what you're doing with that lamp."

l88    THANK YOU, JEEVES

" Yes, sir." " You'U upset it." " Yes, sir." " Oy! " " Sir ? " " You'll
set the house on fire . " Yes, sir." And then there came a far-off crash
of glass, and the Sergeant went bounding down the stairs. This was
followed by a sound which gave me the impression that Brinkley, feeling
that he had done his bit, had galloped to the front door and slammed it
after him. And after that another slam, as if the sergeant, too, had
made a break for the open. And then, filtering through the keyhole, came
a little puff of smoke. I don't suppose there is anything that makes
much better burning than one of these old country cottages. You just put
a match to them-or upset a lamp in the hall, as the case may be-and up
they go. It couldn't have been more than half a minute before a merry
cracklingcame to my ears and a bit of the floor over in the corner
suddenly burst into a cheerful flame. It was enough for Bertram. A
moment before, I had been messing about with knotted sheets with a view
to what you might call the departure deluxe and generally loafing about
and taking my time over the thing. I now quickened up quite a good deal.
It was borne in upon me that anything in the nature of leisurely comfort
was off. In the next thirty

seconds cats on hot bricks could have picked up hints from me. I
remember reading in a paper once one of those Interesting Problem things
about Suppose You were in a Burning House, what would you save ? If I
recollect rightly, a baby entered into it. Also a priceless picture and,
if I am not mistaken, a bedridden aunt. I know there was a wide choice,
and you were supposed to knit the brow and think the thing out from
every angle. On the present occasion I did not hesitate. I looked round
immediately for my banjolele. Conceive my dismay when I remembered that
I had left it in the sitting-room. Well, I wasn't going down to that
sitting-room even for the faithful old musical instrument. Already it
was beginning to be a very moot point whether I wouldn't get cooked to a
crisp, because that genial glow over in the corner had now spread not a
little. With a regretful sigh I hopped hurriedly to the window, and the
next moment I was dropping like the gentle dew upon the place beneath.
Or is it rain ? I always forget. Jeeves would know. I made a smooth
landing and shot silently through the hedge at the junction between my
back garden and Sergeant Voules's little bit, and continued to leg it
till I was in a sort of wood-I suppose about half a mile from the
pulsing centre of affairs. The sky was all lit

IQO    THANK YOU, JEEVES up, and in the distance I could hear the sound
of the local fire brigade going about its duties. I sat down on a stump,
and took time off to pass the situation under review.

Wasn't it Robinson Crusoe or someone who, when things were working out a
bit messily for him, used to draw up a sort of Credit and Debit account,
in order to see exactly where he stood and ascertain whether he was
behind or ahead of the game at that particular moment? I know it was
someone, and I had always thought it rather a sound idea. This was what
I did now. In my head, of course, and keeping a wary eye out for
possible pursuers. The thing came out about as follows :

Credit                       Debit

Well, here I am, what ?      Yes, but your bally house has burned down.

Not mine. Chuffy's.        Yes, I know, but all your things are in it.

Nothing of value.           How about the banjolele ?

Oh, my gosh 1 That's true. I thought that would make you think a bit.

You needn't rub it in.       I'm not rubbing it in. I am merely saying
that your banjolele has been reduced to a heap of ashes.

A VALET EXCEEDS HIS DUTIES IQI Well, I'd have looked a A footling bit of
reasoning.    damn sight sillier if it bad been me.

Well, anyway, I've got away How do you know you from old Stoker,
have ?

He hasn't caught me yet.   No, but he may.

I've still time to get that My poor ass, you can't go 10.21 train,
getting on trains with your face all black.

Butter will remove the Yes, but you have no butter. blacking.

I can buy some.           How ? Got any money on you ?

Well, no.                  Ah t

Why shouldn't I get some Who ? one to give me butter ?

Why, Jeeves, of course. All I have to do is to go to the Hall and put
the whole case before Jeeves and tell him to rally round, and there I'll
be, as right as rain, with nothing more to worry about. Jeeves will know
where to lay his hand on seas of butter. You see! It's perfectly simple
if you think it out and don't lose your head.

And, by Jove, there didn't seem a single Debit to shove against that. I
examined the position thoroughly, trying to find one, but at

the end of five minutes I saw that I had got the Debit account stymied.
I had baffled it. It hadn't a thing to say. Of course, I mused, I ought
to have thought of this solution right from the start. Dashed obvious,
the whole thing, when you came to think of it. I mean, Jeeves would be
back at the Hall by now. I had only to go and get in touch with him and
he would bring out pounds of butter on a lordly dish. And not only that,
but he would lend me enough of the needful to pay my fare to London and
possibly even to purchase a packet of milk chocolate from the slot
machine at the station. The thing was a walkover. I rose from my stump,
braced to a degree, and started off. In the race for life, as you might
term it, I had lost my bearings a bit, but I pretty soon hit the main
road, and I don't suppose it was more than a quarter of an hour later
that I was rapping at the back door of the Hall. It was opened by a
small female-a scullery maid of sorts, I put her down as-who, on
observing me, gaped for a moment with a sort of shocked horror, and then
with a piercing squeal keeled over and started to roll about and drum
her heels on the floor. And I'm not so dashed sure she wasn't frothing
at the mouth.

CHAPTER XIV

THE   BUTTER   SITUATION

I MUST admit it was a fairly nasty shock. I had never realized before
what an important part one's complexion plays in life. I mean to say, a
Bertram Wooster with merely a pretty tan calling at the back door of
Chuffnell Hall would have been received with respect and deference.
Indeed, I shouldn't wonder if a girl of the social standing of a
scullery maid might not actually have curtsied. And I don't suppose
matters would have been so substantially different if I had had an
interesting pallor or pimples. But purely and simply because there
happened to be a little boot polish on my face, here was this female
tying herself in knots on the doormat and throwing fits up and down the
passage. Well, there was only one thing to do, of course. Already voices
from along the corridor were making inquiries, and in another
half-second I presumed that I might expect a regular susurration of
domestics on the scene. I picked up the feet and pushed off. And, taking
it that the neighbourhood of the back door was liable to be searched
pretty soon, I hared round to the front and came to roost in a patch of
bushes not far from the main entrance. N                      193

Here I paused. It seemed to me that before going any farther, I had
better try to analyse the situation and find out what to do next. In
other circs.-if, let us say, I had been reclining in a deck chair with a
cigarette, instead of squatting in a beastly jungle with beetles falling
down my neck-I should probably have got a good deal of entertainment and
uplift out of the scene and surroundings generally. I've always been
rather a lad for the peace of the old-world English garden round about
the time between the end of dinner and the mixing of the bedtime spot.
From where I sat, I could see the great mass of the Hall standing out
against the sky, and very impressive it was, too. Birds were rustling in
the trees, and I think there must have been a flower bed fairly close by
with stocks and tobacco plant in it, for the air was full of a pretty
goodish sort of smell. Add the perfect stillness of a summer night, and
there you are. At the end of about ten minutes, however, the stillness
of the summer night rather sprang a leak. From one of the rooms there
proceeded a loud yelling. I recognised the voice of little Seabury, and
I remember feeling thankful that he had his troubles, too. After a bit,
he cheesed it-I assumed the friction had arisen from the fact that
somebody wanted to put him to bed and he didn't want to go-and all was
quiet again. Directly after that there came a sound of

footsteps. Somebody was walking up the drive to the front door. My first
idea was that it was Sergeant Voules. Chuffy, you see, is a local
Justice of the Peace, and I imagined that one of the first things Voules
would do after the affair at the cottage would be to call on the big
chief and report. I wedged myself a bit tighter into the bushes. No, it
wasn't Sergeant Voules. I had just got him against a patch of sky and I
could see he was taller and not nearly so round. He went up the steps
and started knocking at the door. And when I say knocking I mean
knocking. I had thought Voules's performance at the cottage on the
previous night a pretty good exhibition of wrist-work, but this chap put
it all over him. In a different class, altogether. He was giving that
knocker more exercise than I suppose it had ever had since the first
Chuffnell, or whoever it was, had it screwed on. In the intervals of
slamming the knocker, he was also singing a hymn in a meditative sort of
voice. It was, if I recollect rightly, " Lead, Kindly Light," and it
enabled me to place him. I had heard that reedy tenor before. One of the
first things I had had to put my foot down about, on arriving at the
cottage, was Brinkley's habit of singing hymns in the kitchen while I
was trying to play foxtrots on the banjolele in the sitting-room. There
could not be two voices like that in Chuffnell Regis. This nocturnal
visitor was none other than my plastered

personal attendant, and what he wanted at the Hall was more than I could
understand. Lights flashed up in the house, and the front door was
wrenched open. A voice spoke. It was a pretty peevish voice, and it was
Chuffy's. As a rule, of course, the Squire of Chuffnell Regis shoves the
task of answering the door off on to the domestic staff, but I suppose
he felt that a ghastly din like this constituted a special case. Anyway,
here he was, and he didn't seem too pleased. " What on earth are you
making that foul noise for ? " " Good evening, sir." " What do you mean,
good evening ? What ..." I think he would have gone to some length, for
he was evidently much stirred, but at this point Brinkley interrupted. "
Is the Devil in ? " It was a simple question, capable of being answered
with a Yes or No, but it seemed to take Chuff y aback somewhat. " Is-who
? " " The Devil, sir." I must say I had never looked on old Chuffy as a
fellow of very swift intelligence, he having always run rather to thews
and sinews than the grey cells, but I'm bound to say that at this
juncture he exhibited a keen intuition which did him credit. " You're
tight."

" Yes, sir." Chuffy seemed to explode like a paper bag, I could follow
his mental processes, if you know what I mean, pretty clearly. Ever
since that unfortunate episode at the cottage, when the girl he loved
had handed him the mitten and gone out of his life, I imagine he had
been seething and brooding and sizzling and what not like a soul in
torment, yearning for some outlet for his repressed emotions, and here
he had found one. Ever since that regrettable scene he had been wishing
that he could work off the stored-up venom on somebody, and, by Jove,
Heaven had sent this knocker-slamming inebriate. To run Brinkley down
the steps and up the drive, kicking him about every other yard, was with
the fifth Baron Chuffnell the work of a moment. They passed my little
clump of bushes at about forty m.p.h., and rolled away into the
distance. And after a while I heard footsteps and the sound of someone
whistling as if a bit of a load had been removed from his soul, and
Chuffy came legging it back. Just about opposite my lair he paused to
light a cigarette, and it seemed to me that the moment had come to get
in touch. Mark you, I wasn't any too keen on chatting with old Chuffy,
for his manner at our last parting had been far from bonhomous, and had
my outlook been a shade rosier I would most certainly have given him a
miss. But he was by way of being my last hope. What with

platoons of scullerymaids having hysterics every time I went near the
back door, it seemed impossible to connect with Jeeves tonight. It was
just as impossible to go the round of the neighbourhood, calling on
perfect strangers and asking for butter. I mean, you know yourself how
you feel when a fellow you've never met drops in at your house with his
face all black and tries to touch you for a bit of butter. You just
aren't in sympathy. No, everything pointed to Chuffy as the logical
saviour of the situation. He was a man who had butter at his command,
and it might be that, now that he had worked off some of the hard
feelings on Brinkley, he would be in a frame of mind to oblige an old
school friend with a quarter of a pound or so. So I crawled softly out
of the undergrowth and came up in his immediate rear. (< Chuffy I " I
said. I can see now it would have been better to have given him a bit
more warning of my presence. Nobody likes to have unexpected voices
speakingsuddenly down the back of their neck, and in calmer mood I
should have recognised this. I don't say it was exactly a repetition of
the scullerymaid episode, but for a moment it looked like coming very
near it. The poor old lad distinctlyleaped. The cigarette flew out of
his hand, his teeth came together with a snap, and he shook visibly. The
whole effect being much as if I had spiked him in the trousering with a

gimlet or bodkin. I have seen salmon behave in a rather similar way
during the spawning season. I did my best to lull the storm with
soothing words. " It's only me, Chnffy." " Who ? " " Bertie." " Bertie ?
" " That's right." " Oh I " I didn't much like the sound of that " Oh I
" It hadn't a welcoming ring. One learns to sense when one is popular
and when one is not. It was pretty plain to me at this point    that I
was not, and I thought it might be wise if, before proceeding to the
main topic, I were to start off with a stately compliment. " You put it
across that fellow properly, Chuffy," I said. " I liked your work. It
was particularly agreeable to me to see him so adequately handled,
because I had been wishing I had the nerve to kick him myself." " Who
was he ? " " My man, Brinkley." " What was he doing here ? " " I fancy
he was looking for me." " Why wasn't he at the cottage, then ? " I had
been hoping for a good opportunity of breaking the news. " I'm afraid
you're a cottage short, Chuffy," I said. " I regret to report that
Brinkley has just burned it down."

" What! " " Insured, I trust ? " " He burned the cottage ? How ? Why ? "
" Just a whim. I suppose it seemed a good idea to him at the moment."
Chuffy took it rather hard. I could see that he was brooding, and I
would have liked to allow him to brood all he wanted. But if I was going
to catch that 10.21 it was necessary to push along. Time was of the
essence. " Well," I said, " I hate to bother you, old man . . ." " Why
on earth should he burn a cottage ? " " One cannot attempt to fathom the
psychologyof blokes like Brinkley. They move in a mysterious way their
wonders to perform. Suffice it that he did." " Are you sure it wasn't
you ? " " My dear chap I " " It sounds the sort of silly, fat-headed
thing you would do," said Chuffy, and I was distressed to note in his
voice much evidence of the old rancour. "What do you want here, anyway ?
Who asked you to come ? If you think, after what has happened, that you
can stroll in and out . . ." " I know, I know. I understand. Painful
misunderstanding. Coolness. A disposition to disapprove of Bertram. But
. . ." " And where did you spring from just now ? I never saw you." " I
was sitting in a bush." " Sitting in a bush ? "

The tone in which he said the words told me that, always too prone to
misjudge an old friend, he had once more formed a wrong conclusion. I
heard a match scratch on its box, and the next moment he was examining
me by its light. The light went out, and I heard him breathing deeply in
the darkness. I could follow the workings of his mind. He was evidently
struggling with his feelings. The disinclination to have anything more
to do with me after last night's painful rift was contending with the
reflection that the fact that we had been pals for years carried with it
a certain obligation. A chap, he was thinking, may have ceased to be on
cordial terms with an old schoolmate, but he can hardly let him go
wandering about the country-side in the condition he supposed I was in.
" You'd better come in and sleep it off," he said in a weary sort of
way. " Can you walk ? " " It's all right," I hastened to assure him. "
It's not what you think. Listen." And with convincing fluency I rattled
off " British Constitution," " She sells seashells," and " He stood at
the entrance of Burgess's fish-sauce shop, welcoming him in." The
demonstration had its effect. " Then you're not tight ? " " Not a bit."
" But you sit in bushes." " Yes. But . . ." " And your face is black."

" I know. Hold the line, old man, and I will tell you all." I dare say
you have had the experience of telling someone a longish story and
getting on to the fact, half-way through, that you haven't got the
sympathy of the audience. Most unpleasant sensation. I had it now. It
was not that he said anything. But a sort of deleterious animal
magnetism seemed to exude from him as I passed from point to point. More
and more, as I proceeded, did the conviction steal over me that I was
getting the silent raspberry. However, I carried on stoutly and, having
related the salient facts, wound up with a pretty eloquent plea for the
stearic matter. " Butter, Chuffy, old man," I said. " Slabs of butter.
If you have butter, prepare to shed it now. I'll just saunter about out
here, shall I, while you pop to the kitchen and secure the stuff ? And
you realise, don't you, that time is of the essence ? I shall only just
be able to catch that train, as it is." He did not speak for a moment or
two. When he did, there was such a nasty tinkle in his voice that I
confess the heart sank. " Let me get all this straight," he said. " You
want me to bring you butter ? " " That's the idea." " So that you can
clean your face and go off on this train to London." " Yes." " Thus
escaping from Mr. Stoker."

" That's right. Amazing the way you've followed it all," I said in a
congratulatory sort of voice, deeming it best to suck up a bit and apply
the old salve. " I don't suppose I know six fellows who would have
grasped the plot with the same unerring accuracy. I've always thought
highly of your intelligence, Chuffy, old man-very highly." But the heart
was still sinking. And when I heard him snort emotionally in the
darkness it touched a new low. " I see," he said. " In other words, you
wish me to help you back out of your honourableobligations, what ? " "
What ? " " That's what I said- What ? ' Good God I " cried Chuffy, and I
dare say he quivered from head to foot, but I couldn't see properly, it
being too dark. " I didn't interrupt when you were telling me your
degrading story, because I wanted to get it quite clear. Now, perhaps,
you will let me say a word." He snorted a bit more. " You want to catch
trains to London, do you ? I see. Well, I don't know what you think of
yourself, Wooster, but, if you would care to know how your conduct
strikes a perfectly unprejudicedoutsider, I don't mind informing you
that in my opinion you are behaving like a hound, a skunk, a worm, a
tick. and a wart hog. Good gosh! This beautiful girl loves you. Her
father very decently consents to an early

wedding. And instead of being delighted and pleased and tickled as-er-as
anybody else would be, you are planning to edge away." " But, Chuffy . .
." " I repeat, to edge away. You are brutally and callously scheming to
oil out, leaving this lovely girl to break her heart-deserted,
abandoned, flung aside like a ... like a ... I shall forget my own name
next . . . like a soiled glove." " But, Chuffy . . ." " Don't try to
deny it." " But, dash it, it isn't as if she were in love with me." " Ha
I Isn't she so infatuated with you that she swims ashore from yachts to
get at you ? " " She loves you." " Ha I " " She does, I tell you. It was
you she swam ashore last night to see. And she only took on this hinge
of marrying me to score off you because you doubted her." " Ha I " " So
take the sensible viewpoint, old man, and bring me butter." " Ha I " " I
wish you wouldn't keep saying ' Ha I ' It doesn't advance the issue, and
it sounds rotten. I must have butter, Chuffy. It is of the essence. If
it be only a small pat, bring it out. Wooster speaking, old man-the chap
you were at school with,the fellow you've known since he was so high.''
I paused. For a moment I had an idea

that this had done the trick. I felt his hand fall on my shoulder with a
distinct kneading movement. At that instant I would have put my shirt on
it that he was softened. And so he was, but not along the right lines. "
I will tell you exactly how I feel about all         I this, Bertie," he
said, and there was a sort of beastly gentleness in his manner. " I
won't pretend that I don't love this girl. Even after what has happened,
I still love her. I shall always love her. I loved her from the first
moment we met. It was at the Savoy Grill, I remember, and she was
sitting on one of those chairs in that lobby place halfway through a
medium dry Martini, because Sir Roderick and I were a bit late getting
there and her father had thought they might as well be having a cocktail
instead of just sitting. Our eyes met, and I knew that I had found the
only girl in the world for me, not having the foggiest that she was
really crazy about you." (( She isn't! " " I realize it now, and I know,
of course, that I can never win her for myself. But I can do this,
Bertie. Having this great love for her, I can see to it that she is not
robbed of her happiness. If she is happy, that is all that matters. For
some reason her heart is set on being your wife. Why, one cannot say,
and we need not go into it. But for some unexplained reason she wants
you, and she shall jolly well get you. Funny that you should have come
to me, of all people,

to help you shatter her girlish dreams and rob her of her sweet,
childlike trust in the goodness of human nature I You think I will sit
in with you on this foul project ? My left foot I will! You get no
butter from me, my lad. You will remain exactly as you are, and, after
thinking it over, I have no doubt that you will find your better self
pointing the way and that you will go back to the yacht, prepared to
fulfill your obligations like an English gentleman." " But, Chuffy . . ."
" And, if you wish, I will be your best man. Agony, of course, but I'll
do it if you want me to." I clutched at his arm. " Butter, Chuffy I " He
shook his head. " No butter, Wooster. You are better without it." And,
flinging aside my hand like a soiled glove, he stalked past me into the
night.

I don't know how long it was that I stood there, rooted to the s. It may
have been a short time. It may have been quite a stretch. Despair was
gripping me, and when that happens you don't keep looking at your watch.
Let us say, then, that at some point-five, ten, fifteen, or it may have
been twenty minutes later-I became aware of somebody coughing softly at
my side like a respectful sheep trying to attract the attention of its
shepherd, and with how can I describe what thankfulness and astonishment
I perceived Jeeves.

.CHAPTER XV

DEVELOPMENT OF BUTTER SITUATION

A BALLY miracle it seemed to me at the moment, but of course there was a
simple explanation. " I was hoping that you would not have left the
grounds, sir," he said. " I have been searching for you for some little
time. On learning that the scullerymaid had become a victim to hysterics
as the result of opening the back door and observing a black man, I
sprang to the conclusion that you must have been calling there, no doubt
with a view to seeing me. Has something gone wrong, sir ? " I wiped the
brow. " Jeeves," I said, " I feel like a lost child that has found its
mother." " Indeed, sir ? " " If you don't mind me calling you a mother ?
" " Not at all, sir." " Thank you, Jeeves." " Then there is something
wrong, sir ? " " Wrong I You said it. What are those sore things people
find themselves in ? " " Straits, sir." " I am in the sorest straits,
Jeeves. To

start with, I found that soap and water won't get this stuff off." " No,
sir. I should have informed you that butter is a sine qua non." " Well,
I was on the point of getting butter when Brinkley-my man, you
know-suddenly blew in and burned the house down." " Too bad, sir." " The
expression ' Too bad ' scarcely overstates it, Jeeves. It landed me in
the dickens of a hole. I came here. I tried to get in touch with you.
But that scullerymaid gummed up that project." " A temperamental girl,
sir. And by an unfortunate coincidence she and the cook, at the moment
of your arrival, had just been occupying themselves with the Ouija
board- with, I believe, some interesting results. She appears to have
regarded you as a materialized spirit." I quivered a bit. " If cooks
would stick to their roasts and hashes," I said rather severely, " and
not waste their time in psychical research, life would be a very
different thing." " Quite true, sir." " Well, then I ran into Chuffy. He
stoutly declined to lend me butter." " Indeed, sir ? " " He was in a
very unpleasant mood." " His lordship is undergoing a good deal of
mental anguish at the moment, sir."

DEVELOPMENT OF BUTTER SITUATION 20Q " I could see that. He left me
apparently to go for a country ramble. At this time of night! " "
Physical exercise is a recognised palliative when the heart is aching,
sir." " Well, I mustn't think too harshly of Chuffy. I must always
remember that he kicked Brinkley properly. It did me good to watch him.
And now you've turned up, all is well. The happy ending, what ? " "
Precisely, sir. I shall be delighted to procure you butter." " But can I
still catch that 10.21 ? " " I fear not, sir. But I have ascertained
that there is another train as late as 11.50." " Then I'm on velvet." "
Yes, sir." I breathed deeply. The relief was great. " I shouldn't wonder
if you couldn't even dig me up a packet of sandwiches for the journey,
what ? " " Certainly sir." " And a drop of something ? " "Undoubtedly,
sir." " Then if you happened to have such a thing as a cigarette on your
person at this moment, everything would be more or less perfect." "
Turkish or Virginian, sir ? " " Both." There is nothing like a quiet
cigarette for soothing the system. For some moments I puffed
luxuriously, and my nerves, which had o

been sticking out of my body an inch long and curled at the ends,
gradually slipped into place again. I felt restored and invigorated and
in a mood for conversation. " What was all that yelling about, Jeeves ?
" " Sir ? " " Just before I met Chuff y, animal cries started to proceed
from somewhere in the house. It sounded like Seabury." " It was Master
Seabury, sir. He is a little fractious tonight." " What's biting him ? "
" He is somewhat acutely disappointed, sir, at having missed the negro
entertainment on the yacht." " Absolutely his own fault, the silly
little geezer. If he wanted to go to Dwight's birthdayparty, he
shouldn't have started a scrap with him." " Just so, sir." " To attempt
to touch your host for one and sixpence protection money on the eve of a
birthday party is the act of a fathead." " Very true, sir." " What did
they do about it ? He seems to have stopped yelling. Did they chloroform
him ? " " No, sir. I understand that steps are being taken to provide
something in the nature of an alternative entertainment for the little
fellow." " How do you mean, Jeeves ? Are they having the niggers up here
? "

" No, sir. The expense rules that project out of the sphere of practical
politics. But I understand that her ladyship has induced Sir Roderick
Glossop to offer his services." I could not follow this. " Old Glossop ?
" " Yes, sir." " But what can he do ? " " It appears, sir, that he has a
pleasing baritone voice and as a younger man-in the days when he was a
medical student-was often accustomed to render songs at smoking concerts
and similar entertainments." <( Old Glossop I " " Yes, sir. I overheard
him telling her ladyshipso." " Well, I would never have thought it." " I
agree that one would scarcely suspect such a thing from his bearing
nowadays, sir. Tempwa mutantur, nos et mutamur in illis." " Then you
mean that he is going to soothe young Seabury with song ? " " Yes, sir.
Accompanied by her ladyship on the piano." I spotted the snag. " It
won't work, Jeeves. Reason it out for yourself." " Sir ? " " Well, here
is a kid who has been looking forward to seeing a troupe of nigger
minstrels do their stuff. Is he likely to accept as an

adequate substitute a white-faced loony-doctor accompanied by his mother
on the piano ? " " Not white-faced, sir." " What! " " No, sir. The
question was debated, and it was her ladyship's view that something in
the nature of a negroid performance was indispensable. The young
gentleman, when in his present frame of mind, is always extremely
exigent." I swallowed a puff of smoke the wrong way in my emotion. " Old
Glossop isn't blacking up ? " " Yes, sir." " Jeeves, pull yourself
together. This can't be true. He is blacking his face ? " " Yes, sir." "
It isn't possible." " Sir Roderick is very amenable at the moment, sir,
you must remember, to any suggestion emanating from her ladyship." " You
mean he's in love ? " " Yes, sir." " And Love conquers all ? " " Yes,
sir." " But even so.... If you were in love, Jeeves, would you black up
to entertain the son of the adored object ? " " No, sir. But we are not
all constituted alike." " True." " Sir Roderick did endeavour to
protest, but

her ladyship overruled his objections. And, as a matter of fact, sir, I
think that, on the whole, it is a good thing that she did. Sir
Roderick's kindly act will serve to heal the breach between Master
Seabury and himself. I happen to know that the young gentleman has been
unsuccessful in his endeavour to extract protection money from Sir
Roderick, and was resenting the fact keenly." " He tried to gouge the
old boy ? " " Yes, sir. For ten shillings. I have the information from
the young gentleman himself." " They all confide in you, Jeeves." <(
Yes, sir." " And old Glossop wouldn't kick in ? " " No, sir. Instead, he
read the young gentleman something of a lecture. What the young
gentleman described as ' pi-jaw.' And I happen to know that hard
feelings existed as a consequence on the latter's side. So much so,
indeed, that I received the impression that he had been planning
something in the nature of a reprisal." " He wouldn't have the nerve to
do the dirty on a future stepfather, would he ? " " Young gentlemen are
headstrong, sir." " True. One recalls the case of my Aunt Agatha's son,
young Thos., and the Cabinet Minister." " Yes, sir." " In a spirit of
ill-will he marooned him on an island in the lake with a swan."

" Yes, sir." " How is the swarming in these parts ? I confessthat I
would like to see old Glossop shinning up something with a bilious bird
after him." " I fancy that Master Seabury's thoughts turned more towards
something on the order of a booby trap, sir." " They would. No
imagination, that kid. No vision. I've often noticed it. His fancy is
-what's the word ? " " Pedestrian, sir ? " " Exactly. With all the
limitless opportunitiesof a large country house at his disposal, he is
content to put soot and water on top of the door, a thing you could do
in a suburban villa. I have never thought highly of Seabury, and this
confirms my low opinion." < " Not soot and water, sir. I think what the
young gentleman had in mind was the old-fashioned butter-slide, sir. He
was asking me yesterday where the butter was kept, and referred
guardedly to a humorous film he had seen not long ago in Bristol, in
which something of that nature occurred." I was disgusted. Goodness
knows that any outrage perpetrated on the person of a bloke like Sir
Roderick Glossop touches a ready chord in Bertram Wooster's bosom, but a
butter-slide . . . the lowest depths, as you might say. The merest A B C
of the booby-trapping art. There isn't a fellow at the Drones who would
sink to such a thing.

I started to utter a scornful laugh, then stopped. The word had reminded
me that life . was stem and earnest and that time was passing. " Butter,
Jeeves! Here we are, standing idly here, talking of butter, and all the
time you ought to have been racing to the larder, getting me some." " I
will go immediately, sir." " You know where to lay your hand on it all
right ? " " Yes, sir." " And you're sure it will do the trick ? " "
Quite sure, sir." " Then shift-ho, Jeeves. And don't loiter." I sat down
on an upturned flower-pot, and resumed my vigil. My feelings were very
different now from what they had been when first I had begun to roost on
this desirable property. Then, I had been a penniless outcast, so to
speak, with nothing much of a future before me. Now, I could see
daylight. Presently Jeeves would return with the fixings. Shortly after
that, I should be the old pink-cheeked clubman once more. And, in due
season, I should be safely inside the 11.50 train, on my way to London
and safety. It was a good deal uplifted. I drank in the night air with a
light heart. And it was while I was drinking it in that a sudden uproar
proceeded from the house. 3eabury appeared to be contributing most of
it. He was yelling his bally head off. From

time to time, one caught the fainter, yet penetrating note of the
Dowager Lady Chuffnell. She seemed to be reproaching or upbraiding
someone. Blending with this, there could be discerned a deeper voice,
the unmistakable baritone woofle of Sir Roderick Glossop. The whole
appeared to be proceeding from the drawing-room, and, except for one
time when I was sauntering in Hyde Park and suddenly found myself mixed
up in a Community Singing, I've never heard anything like it. It
couldn't have been very long after this when the front door was suddenly
flung open. Somebody emerged. The door slammed. And then the emerger
started to stump rapidly down the drive in the direction of the gates.
There had been just a moment when the light from the hall had shone upon
this bloke. It had been long enough for me to identify him. This sudden
exiter, who was now padding away into the darkness with every outward
sign of being fed to the eye teeth, was none other than Sir Roderick
Glossop. And his face, I noted, was as black as the ace of spades. A few
moments later, while I was still wondering what it was all about and
generally turning the thing over in my mind, I observed Jeeves looming
up on the right flank. I was glad to see him. I desired enlightment. "
What was all that, Jeeves ? " " The disturbance, sir ? "

" It sounded as if little Seabury was being murdered. No such luck, I
take it ? " " The young gentleman was the victim of a personal assault,
sir. At the hands of Sir Roderick Glossop. I was not an actual
eyewitnessof the episode. I derive my informationfrom Mary, the
parlourmaid, who was present in person." ??Present ? " " Peeping through
the door, sir.  Sir Roderick's appearance when she encountered him by
chance on the stairs seems to have affected the girl powerfully, and she
tells me that she had followed him about in a stealthy manner ever
since, waiting to see what he would do next. I gather that his aspect
fascinated her. She is inclined to be somewhat frivolous in her mental
attitude, like so many of these young girls, sir." " And what occurred ?
"                          .jj " The affair may be said to have had its
inception, sir, when Sir Roderick, passing through the hall, stepped
upon the young gentleman's butter slide." " Ah I So he put that project
through, did he?" " Yes, sir." " And Sir Roderick came a stinker ? " "
He appears to have fallen with some heaviness, sir. The girl Mary spoke
of it with a good deal of animation. She compared his descent to the
delivery of a ton of coals. I

confess the imagery somewhat surprised me, for she is not a highly
imaginative girl." I smiled appreciatively. The evening, I felt, might
have begun rockily, but it was certainly ending well. " Incensed by
this. Sir Roderick appears to have hastened to the drawing-room, where
he immediately subjected Master Seabury to a severe castigation. Her
ladyship vainly endeavouredto induce him to desist, but he was firm in
his refusal. The upshot of the matter was a definite rift between her
ladyship and Sir Roderick,the former stating that she never wished to
see him again, the latter asseverating that, if he could once get safely
out of this pestilential house, he would never darken its doors again."
" A real mixup." " Yes, sir." " And the engagement's off ? " " Yes, sir.
The affection which her ladyship felt for Sir Roderick was
instantaneously swept away on the tidal wave of injured mother love." "
Rather well put, Jeeves." " Thank you, sir." " Then Sir Roderick has
pushed off for ever ? " " Apparently, sir." "A lot of trouble Chuffnell
Hall is seeing these days. Almost as if there was a curse on the place."
" If one were superstitious, one might certainlysuppose so, sir." "
Well, if there wasn't a curse on it before,

you can bet there are about fifty-seven now. I heard old Glossop
applying them as he passed." " He was much moved, I take it, sir ? " "
Very much moved, Jeeves." "So I should imagine, sir. Or he would
scarcely have left the house in that condition." " How do you mean ? " "
Well, sir, if you consider. It will scarcely be feasible for him to
return to his hotel in the existing circumstances. His appearance would
excite remark. Nor, after what has occurred, can he very well return to
the Hall." I saw what he was driving at. " Good Lord, Jeeves! You open
up a new line of thought. Let me just review this. He can't go to his
hotel-no, I see that, and he can't crawl back to the Dowager Lady C. and
ask for shelter-no, I see that too. It's a dead stymie. I can't imagine
what on earth he'll do."                                               i
" It is something of a problem, sir." I was silent for a moment.
Pensive. And, oddly enough, for you would have thought my mood would
have been one of sober joy, the heart was really rather bleeding a bit.
" Do you know, Jeeves, scurvily as that man has treated me in the past,
I can't help feeling sorry for him. I do, absolutely. He's in such an
awful jam. It was bad enough for me being a black-faced wanderer, but I
hadn't the position to keep up that he has. I mean to say, the world,
observing me in this condition, might

quite easily just have shrugged its shoulders and murmured ' Young
Blood!' or words to that effect, what ? " " Yes, sir." " But not with a
bloke of his standing." " Very true, sir." " Well, well, well! Dear,
dear, dear! I suppose, if you come right down to it, this is the
vengeance of Heaven." " Quite possibly, sir." It isn't often that I
point the moral, but I couldn't help doing it now. " It just shows how
we ought always to be kind, even to the humblest, Jeeves. For years this
Glossop has trampled on my face with spiked shoes, and see where it has
landed him. What would have happened if we had been on chummy terms at
this juncture ? He would have been on velvet. Observing him shooting
past just now, I should have stopped him. I should have called out to
him ' Hi, Sir Roderick, half a second. Don't go roaming about the place
in make-up. Stick around here for awhile and pretty soon Jeeves will be
arriving with the necessary butter, and all will be well.' Shouldn't I
have said that, Jeeves ? " " Something of that general trend, no doubt,
sir." " And he would have been saved from this fearful situation, this
sore strait, in which he now finds himself. I dare say that man won't be
able to get butter till well on in the morning.

CHAPTER  XVI

TROUBLE AT THE DOWER HOUSE

I STOOD there with my hand out, frozen to the spot. The faculties seemed
numbed. I remember once, when I was in New York, one of those sad-eyed
Italian kids who whizz about Washington Square on roller skates suddenly
projected himself with extraordinary violence at my waistcoat as I
strolled to and fro, taking the air. He reached journey's end right on
the third button from the top, and I had much the same sensation now as
I had had then. A sort of stricken feeling. Stunned. Breathless. As if
somebody had walloped the old soul unexpectedly with a sandbag. " What!
" " Yes, sir." " No butter ? " " No butter, sir." " But, Jeeves, this is
frightful." *' Most disturbing, sir." ' If Jeeves has a fault, it is
that his demeanour on these occasions too frequently tends to be rather
more calm and unemotional than one could wish. One lodges no protest, as
a rule, because he generally has the situation well in hand and loses no
time in coming before the Board with

one of his ripe solutions. But I have often felt that I could do with a
little more leaping about with rolling eyeballs on his part, and I felt
it now. At a moment like the present, the adjective <( disturbing "
seemed to me to miss the facts by about ten parasangs. " But what shall
I do ? " " I fear that it will be necessary to postpone the cleansing of
your face till a later date, sir. I shall be in a position to supply you
with butter tomorrow." " But to-night ? " " To-night, I am afraid, sir,
you must be content to remain in statu quo." " Eh ? " " A Latin
expression, sir." " You mean nothing can be done till to-morrow ? " " I
fear not, sir. It is vexing." "You would go so far as to describe it as
that?" " Yes, sir. Most vexing." I breathed a bit tensely. " Oh, well,
just as you say, Jeeves." I pondered. " And what do I do in the meantime
? " " As you have had a somewhat trying evening, I think it would be
best, sir, if you were to get a good sleep." " On the lawn ? " " If I
might make the suggestion, sir, I think you would be more comfortable in
the Dower

House. It is only a short distance across the park, and it is
unoccupied." " It can't be. They wouldn't leave it empty." " One of the
gardeners is acting as caretaker while her ladyship and Master Seabury
are visiting the Hall, but at this hour he is always down at the'
Chuffnell Arms' in the village. It would be quite simple for you to
effect an entrance and establish yourself in one of the upper rooms
without his cognizance. And to-morrow morning I could join you therewith
the necessary materials." I confess it wasn't my idea of a frightfully
large evening. " You've nothing brighter to suggest ? " " No, sir." "
You wouldn't consider letting me have your bed for the night ? " " No,
sir." *' Then I might as well be moving." " Yes, sir." " Good night,
Jeeves," I said moodily. " Good night, sir." It didn't take me long to
get to the Dower House, and the trip seemed shorter than it actually
was, because my mind was occupied in transit with a sort of series of
silent Hymns of Hate directed at the various blokes who had combined to
land me in what Jeeves would have called this vexing situation-featuring
little Seabury. The more I thought of this stripling, the more the iron
entered into my soul. And one result of my meditations regarding him was
to

engender-I think it's engender-an emotion towards Sir Roderick Glossop
which came pretty near to being a spirit of kindliness. You know how it
is. You go along for years looking on a fellow as a blister and a menace
to the public weal, and then one day you suddenly hear of some decent
thing he's done and it makes you feel there must be good in the chap,
after all. It was so in the matter of this Glossop. I had suffered much
at his hands since first our paths had crossed. In the human Zoo which
Fate has caused to centre about Bertram Wooster, he had always ranked
high up among the more vicious specimens-many good judges, indeed,
considering that he even competed for the blue ribbon with that great
scourge of modern times, my Aunt Agatha. But now, reviewing his recent
conduct, I must admit that I found myself definitely softening towards
him. Nobody, I reasoned, who could slosh young        || Seabury like
that could be altogether bad. There must be fine metal somewhere among
the dross. And I actually went so far as to say to myself with something
of a rush of emotion that, if ever things so shaped themselves that I
could go freely about my affairs again, I would look the man up and
endeavour to fraternize with him. I had even reached the stage of toying
with the idea of a nice little lunch, with him on one side of the table
and me on the other, sucking down some good, dry vintage wine

and chatting like old friends, when I found that I had arrived at the
outskirts of the Dower House. This bin or depository for the widows of
deceased Lords Chuffnell was a medium-sized sort of shack standing in
what the advertisements describe as spacious and commodious grounds. You
entered by a five-barred gate set in a box hedge and approached by a
short gravel drive- unless you were planning to break 'in through a
lower window, in which case you sneaked along a grass border, skipping
silently from tree to tree. Thii:' is what I did, though at a casual
glance it didn't .^eem really necessary. The place looked deserted.
Still, so far, of course, I had only seen the front of it: and if the
gardener in charge had changed his policy of going down to the local pub
for a refresher at this hour and was still on the premises, he would be
round at the back. It was thither, therefore, that I now directed the
footsteps, making them as snaky as possible. I can't say I liked the
prospect before me. Jeeves had spoken airily-or glibly-of busting   / in
and making myself at home for the night; but my experience has been that
whenever I try to do a bit of burgling something always goes wrong. I
had not yet forgotten that time Bingo Little persuaded me to break into
his house and pinch the dictaphone record of the mushy article his wife,
nee Rosie M. Banks, the well-known female novelist, had written about
him for my Aunt Dahlia's paper. Milady's Boudoir. Pekingese,
parlourmaids, and policemen had entered

TROUBLE AT THE DOWER HOUSE 22/ into the affair, you may remember,
causing me despondency and alarm : and I didn't want anything of that
nature happening again. So it was with a pretty goodish amount of
caution that I now sidled round to the back: and when the first thing
the eye fell on was the kitchen door standing ajar, I did not rush in
with the vim I would have displayed a year or so earlier, before Life
had made me the grim, suspicious man I am to-day : but stood there
cocking a wary eye at it. It might be all right. On the other hand, it
might not be all right. Time alone could tell. The next moment, I was
dashed glad I had held off, because I suddenly heard someone whistling
in the house, and I saw what that meant. It meant that the gardener
bloke, instead of going down to the " Chuffnell Arms " for a snifter,
had decided to stay home and have a quiet evening among his books. So
much for Jeeves's authoritative inside information. I drew back into the
shadows like a leopard, feeling pretty peeved. I felt that Jeeves had no
right to say that fellows went down to the village for a spot at such
and such a time when they didn't. And then suddenly something happened
that threw an entirely new light on the position of affairs, and I saw
that I had misjudged the honest fellow. The whistling stopped, there was
a single, brief hiccough, and then from inside came the sound of
somebody singing " Lead, Kindly Light." The occupant of the Dower House
was np

mere gardener. It was Moscow's Pride, the unspeakable Brinkley, who
lurked therein. The situation seemed to me to call for careful,
unhurried thought.

The whole trouble with fellows like Brinkley is that in dealing with
them you cannot go by the form book. They are such in-and-out
performers. To-night, for instance, within the space of little more than
an hour, I had seen this man ravening to and fro with a carving knife
and also tolerantly submitting to having himself kicked by Chuffy
practically the whole length of the Chuffnell Hall drive. It all seemed
to be a question of what mood he happened to be in at the time. If,
therefore, I was compelledto ask myself, I were to walk boldly into the
Dower House now, which manifestation of this many-sided man would greet
me ? Should I find a deferential lover of peace whom it would be both
simple and agreeable to take by the slack of the trousers and bung out ?
Or should I have to spend the remainder of the night racing up and
downstairs with him a short head behind me ? And, arising out of this,
what had become of that carving knife of his ? As far as I could
ascertain, he did not appear to have it on his person during the
interview with Chuffy. But then, on the other hand, he might simply have
left it somewhere and collected it again by now. Reviewing the matter
from every angle, I decided to remain where I was ; and the next

moment the trend of events showed that the decision had been a wise one.
He had just got as far as that bit about " The night is dark " and
seemed to be going strong, though a little uncertain in the lower
register, when he suddenly broke off. And the next thing I heard was a
most frightful outbreak of shoutings and clumping and hangings. What had
set him off, I could not, of course, say ; but the sounds left little
room for doubt that for some reason or other the fellow had abruptly
returned to what I might call the carving-knife phase. One of the
advantages of being in the country, if you belong, like Brinkley, to the
more aggressive type of loony, is that you have great freedom of
movement. The sort of row he was making now, if made in, let us say,
Grosvenor Square or Cadogan Terrace, would infallibly have produced
posses of policemen within the first two minutes. Windows would have
been raised, whistles blown. But in the peaceful seclusion of the Dower
House, Chuffnell Regis, he was granted the widest scope for
self-expression. Except for the Hall, there wasn't another house within
a mile : and even the Hall was too far away for the ghastly uproar he
was making to be more than a faint murmur. As to what he thought he was
chasing, there again one could make no certain pronouncement. It? might
be that the gardener-caretaker had not gone to the village, after all,
and was

now wishing that he had. Or it might be, of course, that a fellow in
Brinkley's sozzled condition did not require a definite object of the
chase, but simply chased rainbows, so to speak, for the sake of the
exercise. I was inclining to this latter view, and wondering a little
wistfully if there mightn't be a chance of him falling downstairs and
breaking his neck, when I found that I had been wrong. For some minutes
the noise had grown somewhat fainter, activities seeming to have shifted
to some distant part of the house; but now it suddenly hotted up again.
I heard feet clattering downstairs. Then there was a terrific crash. And
immediately after that the back door was burst open, and out shot a
human form. It whizzed rapidly in my direction. tripped over something,
and came a purler almost at my feet. And I was about to commend my soul
to God and jump on its gizzard, hoping for the best, when something in
the tone of the comments it was making-a sort of educated profanity
which seemed to give evidence of a better bringing-up than Brinkley
could possibly have had-made me pause. I bent down. My diagnosis had
been correct. It was Sir Roderick Glossop. I was just going to introduce
myself and institute inquiries, when the back door swung open again and
another figure appeared. " And stay out! " it observed, with a good deal
of bitterness. The voice was Brinkley's. It was some small

pleasure to me at a none too festive time to note that he was rubbing
his left shin. The door slammed, and I heard the bolts shot. The next
moment, a tenor voice rendering " Rock of Ages " showed that, as far as
Brinkley was concerned, the episode was concluded. Sir Roderick had
scrambled to his feet, and was standing puffing a good bit, as if
touched in the wind. I was not surprised, for the going had been fast.
It struck me as a good moment to start the dialogue. " What ho, what ho
I " I said. It seemed to be rather my fate on this particularnight to
stir up my fellow man, not to mention my fellow scullery maid. But,
judging by results, the magnetic force of my personality appeared to be
a bit on the wane. I mean to say, while the scullerymaid had had
hysterics and Chuff y had jumped a foot, this Glossop merely quivered
like something in aspic when joggled on the dish. But this, of course,
may have been becausethat was all he was physically able to do. These
breathers with Brinkley take it out of a man. " It's all right," I
continued, anxious to set him at his ease and remove the impression that
what was murmuring in his ear was some fearful creature of the night. "
Only B. Wooster--" " Mr. Wooster I " " Absolutely." " Good God! " he
said, becoming a little

more tranquil, though still far from the life and soul of the party. "
Woof I " And there the matter rested, while he took in a supply of
life-giving air. I remained silent. We Woosters do not intrude at such a
time. Presently the puffing died away to a soft whiffle. He took about
another minute and a half off. And, when he spoke, there was something
so subdued, so what you might call quavering, about his voice that I
came within a toucher of placing a kindly arm round his shoulder and
telling him to cheer up. " No doubt you are wondering, Mr. Wooster, what
is the explanation of all this ? " I still wasn't quite equal to the
kindly arm, but I did bestow a sort of encouraging pat. "Not a bit," I
said. "Not a bit. I know all. I am abreast of the whole situation. I
heard what had happened at the Hall, and directly I saw you shoot out of
that door I knew what must have occurred here. You were planning to
spend the night in the Dower House, weren't you ? " " I was. If you have
really been apprised of what took place at Chuffnell Hall, Mr. Wooster,
you are aware that I am in the unfortunate position of , . ." "... being
blacked out. I know. So am I." " You! " " Yes. It's a long story, and I
couldn't tell you, anyway, because it's by way of being secret history,
but you can take it from me that we are both in the same fix."

" But this is astonishing I " " You can'tgoback to your hotel, and I
can't get up to London till we have taken the make-up off." " Good God I
" "It seems to bringus very close together, what? " He breathed deeply.
" Mr. Wooster, we have had our differences in the past. The fault may
have been mine. I cannot say. But in this crisis we must forget them
and-er--" " Stick together ? " " Precisely." " We will," I said
cordially. " Speaking for myself, I decided to let the dead past bury
its dead when I heard that you had been giving little Seabury one or two
on the spot indicated." I heard him snort. " You are aware what that
abominable boy did to me, Mr. Wooster ? " " Rather. And what you did to
him. I am thoroughly posted up to the time you left the Hall. What
happened after that ? " "Almost immediately after I had done so, the
realization of my terrible position came upon me." " Nasty jar, I
imagine ? " " The shock was of the severest. I was at a complete loss.
The only course it seemed possible to pursue was to seek refuge
somewherefor the night. And, knowing the Dower House to be unoccupied, I
repaired thither." He shuddered. " Mr. Wooster, that house is-    I
speak in all seriousness-an Inferno."

He puffed awhile. " I am not alluding to the presence on the-premisesof
what appeared to me to be a dangerous lunatic. I mean that the whole
place is congested with living organisms. Mice, Mr. Wooster! And small
dogs. And I think I saw a monkey." " Eh ? " " I remember now that Lady
Chuff nell informedme that her son had started to maintain an
establishment of these creatures, but at the moment it had slipped my
mind, and the experience came upon me without warning or preparation." "
Of course, yes. Seabury breeds things. I remember him telling me. And
you were snootered by the menagerie ? " He stirred in the darkness. I
fancy he was mopping the b. " Shall I tell you of my experiences beneath
that roof, Mr. Wooster ? " " Do," I said cordially. " We have the night
before us." He handkerchief ed the brow once more. " It was a nightmare.
I had scarcely entered the place when a voice addressed me from a dark
corner of the kitchen, which was the room in which I first found myself.
* I see you, you old muddler,' was the phrase it employed." " Dashed
familiar." " I need scarcely tell you what consternation it occasioned
me. I bit my tongue severely. Then, divining that the speaker was merely
a

parrot, I hastened from the room. I had scarcely reached the stairs when
I observed a hideous form. A little, short, broad, bowlegged individual
with long arms and a dark, wizened face. He was wearing clothes of some
description and he walked rapidly, lurching from side to side and
gibbering. In my present cool frame of mind I realize that it must have
been a monkey, but at the time ..." " What a home I " I said
sympathetically. ** Add little Seabury, and what a home I How about the
mice ? " " They came later. Allow me, if you will, to adhere to the
chronological sequence of my misadventures, or I shall be unable to
relate the story coherently. The room in which I next found myself
appeared to be completely filled with small dogs. They pounced upon me,
snuffling and biting at me. I escaped and entered another room. Here at
last, I was saying to myself, even in this sinister and ill-omened house
there must be peace. Mr. Wooster, I had hardly framed the thought when
something ran up my right trouser leg. I sprang to one side, and in so
doing upset what appeared to be a box or cage of some kind. I found
myself in a sea of mice. I detest the creatures. I endeavoured to brush
them off. They clung the more. I fled from the room, and I had scarcely
reached the stairs when this lunatic appeared and pursued me. He pursued
me up and down stairs, Mr. Wooster! "

I nodded understandingly. " We all go through it," I said. " I had the
same experience." " You ? " "Rather. Henearlygotmewithacarving knife." "
As far as I could discern, the weapon he carried was more of the order
of a chopper." " He varies," I explained. " Now the carving knife, anon
the chopper. Versatile chap. It's the artistic temperament, I suppose."
" You speak as if you knew this man." -' " I do more than know him. I
employ him. He's my valet." " Your valet ? " "Fellownamed Brinkley. He
won't be my valet long, mind you. If he ever simmers down enough for me
to get near him and give him the sack. Ironical, that, when you come to
think of it," I said, for I was in philosophic mood. " I mean, do
i you realize that I'm giving this chap a salary all this time ? In
other words, he's actually being paid to chivy me about with
carving-knives. If that's not Life," I said thoughtfully, " what is ? "
It seemed to take the old boy a moment or two to drink this in.
I " Your valet ? Then what is he doing in the Dower House ? " " Oh, he's
a mobile sort of fellow, you know. Now here, now there. He flits. He was
at the Hall not long ago." " I never heard of such a thing." " New to
me, too, I must confess. Well, you're

certainly having a lively night. This'U last you, what ? I mean, you
won't need any more excitement for months and months and months." " Mr.
Wooster, my earnest hope is that the entire remainder of my existence
will be one round of unruffled monotony. To-night I have seemed to sense
the underlying horror of life. You do not suppose that there could
possibly be mice on my person still ? " " You must have shaken them off,
I should say. You were pretty active, you know. I could only hear you,
of course, but you seemed to be leaping from crag to crag, as it were."
" Certainly I spared no effort to elude this man Brinkley. It was merely
that I fancied I felt something nibbling at my left shoulder blade." "
You've had quite a night, haven't you ? " " A truly terrible night. I
shall not readily recover a normal tranquillity of mind. My pulse is
still high, and I do not like the way my heart is beating. However, by a
merciful good fortune, all has ended well. You will be able to give me
the shelter I so sorely need in your cottage. And there with the
assistance of a little soap and water I shall be able to wash off this
distasteful blacking." I saw that this was where I had to start breaking
things gently to him. " You can't get that stuff off with soap and
water. I've tried. You have to have butter." " The point strikes me as
immaterial. You can provide butter, no doubt ? " " Sorry. No butter."

" There must be butter in your cottage." " There isn't. And why ?
Because there    isn't a cottage." " I cannot understand you." " It's
burned down." " What ? " "Yes. Brinkley did it." " Good God I " " A
nuisance in many ways, I must confess." He was silent for a space.
Turning the thing over in his mind. Looking at it from this angle and
that. " Your cottage is really burned down ? " " Heap of ashes." " Then
what is to be done ? " It seemed time to point out the silver lining. "
Be of good cheer," I said. " We may not be so well off for cottages, but
the butter situation,I am happy to say, is reasonably bright. We can't
get any to-night, but it cometh in the morning, so to speak. Jeeves is
going to bring me some as soon as the dairyman delivers." " But I cannot
remain in this condition till morning." " Only course to pursue, I'm
afraid." He brooded. Hard to see in the darkness, but discontentedly, I
thought, as if his haughty spirit fretted somewhat. He must have been
doing some good, solid thinking, too, because suddenly he came to life
with an idea. ** This cottage of yours-had it a garage ? " " Oh, yes."

" Was that burned down also ? " " No, I fancy it escaped the holocaust.
It was well away from the scene of conflagration." " Is there petrol in
it ? " " Oh, yes. Lots of petrol." " Why, then all is well, Mr. Wooster.
I am convinced that petrol will prove a cleansing agent equally as
efficacious as butter." " But, dash it, you can't go to my garage." "
Why not, pray ? "     ?" Well, yes, you could, if you liked, I suppose.
Not me, though. For reasons which I am not prepared to divulge, I
propose to spend the rest of the night in the summer-house on the main
lawn of the Hall." " You will not accompany me ? " " Sorry. No." " Then
good night, Mr. Wooster. I will not keep you any longer from your rest.
I am greatly obliged to you for the assistance you have accorded me in a
trying situation. We must see more of one another. Let us lunch together
one of these days. How do I obtain access to this garage of yours ? " "
You'll have to bust a window." " I will do so." He pushed off, full of
buck and determination, and I, with a dubious shake of the old onion,
trickled along towards the summerhouse.

CHAPTER XVII

BREAKFAST-TIME AT THE HALL

I DON'T know if you have ever spent the night in a summer-house. If not,
avoid making the experiment. It's not a thing I would advise any friend
of mine to do. On the subject of sleeping in summer-houses I will speak
out fearlessly. As far as I have been able to ascertain, such a hinge
doesn't present a single attractive feature. Apart from the inevitable
discomfort in the fleshy parts, there's the cold, and apart from the
cold there's the mental anguish. All the ghost stories you've ever read
go flitting through the mind, particularlyany you know where fellows are
found next morning absolutely dead, without a mark on them but with such
a look of horror and fear in their eyes that the search party draw in
their breath a bit and gaze at each other as much as to say " What ho I
" Things creak. You fancy you hear stealthy footsteps. You receive the
impression that a goodish quota of skinny hands are reaching out for you
in the darkness. And, as I say, the cold extremely severe and much
discomfort in the fleshy parts. The whole constituting a pretty sticky
experience and one to be avoided by the knowledgeable. And what made the
thing so dashed poignant in my case was the thought that if I had only
had the nerve to accompany intrepid old Glossop to the garage there
would have been no need for me to stay marooned in this smelly
structure, listening to the wind howling through the chinks in the
woodwork. Once at the garage, I mean to say, I could not only have
scoured the face but could have hopped into the old two-seater, which
was champing at its bit there, and tooled off to London by road, singing
a gipsy song, as it were. And I simply couldn't muster up the nerve to
take a pop at it. The garage, I reflected, was right in the danger zone,
well inside the Vbules and Dobson belt, and I absolutely could not face
the possibility of running into Police-Sergeant Voules and being
detained and questioned. Those meetings with him the night before had
shattered my moral, causing me to look upon this hellhound of the Law as
a sleepless prowler who rambled incessantly and was bound to appear out
of a trap just at the moment when you could best have done without him.
So I stayed where I was. I hitched myself into position forty-six in the
hope that it would be easier on the f.p's than the last forty-five, and
had another shot at the dreamless. The thing that always beats me is how
on these occasions one ever gets to sleep at all. Personally, I
abandoned all idea of it at an Q

early stage, and no one, accordingly, could have been more surprised
than myself when, just as I was endeavouring to give the miss to a
leopard which was biting me rather shrewdly in the seat of the trousers,
I suddenly awoke to discover that it had been but a dream, that in
reality no leopards were to be noticed among those present, that the sun
was up and another day had begun, and that on the greensward without the
early bird was already breakfasting and making the dickens of a noise
about it, too. I went to the door and looked out. I could hardly believe
that it was really morning. But it was, and a dashed good morning, at
that. The air was cool and fresh, there were long shadows across the
lawn, and everything combined to give the soul such a kick that many
fellows in my position would have taken off their socks and done
rhythmic dances in the dew. I did not actually do that, but I certainly
felt uplifted to no little extent, and you might say that I was simply
so much pure spirit, without any material side to me whatsoever, when
suddenly it was as if the old turn had come out of a trance with a jerk,
and the next moment I was feeling that nothing mattered in this world or
the next except about a quart of coffee and all the eggs and b. you
could cram on to a dish. It's a rummy thing about breakfast. When you've
only to press a bell to have the domestic staff racing in with
everything on the menu

from oatmeal to jams, marmalades, and potted meats, you find that all
you can look at is a glass of soda water and a rusk. When you can't get
it, you feel like a python when the Zoo officials have just started to
bang the luncheon gong. Speaking for myself, I have, as a rule, to be
more or less lured to the feast. I mean to say, I don't as a general
thing become what you might call breakfast-conscious till I've had my
morning tea and rather thought things over a bit. And I can give no
better indication of the extraordinary change which had come over my
viewpoint now than by mentioning that there was a young fowl of sorts
not far away engaged in getting outside a large, pink worm, and I could
willingly have joined it at the board. In fact, I would have taken pot
luck at this juncture with a buzzard. My watch had stopped, so I
couldn't tell what time it was : and another thing I didn't know was
when Jeeves was planning to go to the Dower House to keep our tryst. The
thought that he might even now be on his way there and that, if he
didn't find me, he would give the thing up as a bad job and retire to
some impregnable fastness in the back parts of the Hall gave me a very
nasty turn. I left the summer-house and, taking to the bushes, began to
work my way through them, treading like a Red Indian on the trail and
keeping well under cover throughout. And I was just navigating round the
side of

the house and making ready for the dash into the open, when through the
French window of the morning-room I saw a spectacle which affected me
profoundly. In fact, you'd be about right if you said that it seemed to
speak to my very depths. Inside the room, a parlourmaid was placing a
large tray on a table. The sunlight, streaming in, lit up this
parlourmaid's hair: and, noting its auburn hue, I deduced that she must
be Mary, the betrothed of Constable Dobson : and at any other time the
fact would have been of interest. But I was in no mood now to subject
the girl to a critical scrutiny with a view to ascertaining whether the
constable had picked a winner or not. My whole attention was earmarked
for that tray. It was a well-laden tray. There was a coffeepot on it,
also toast in considerable quantity, and furthermore a covered dish. It
was this last that touched the spot. Under that cover there might be
eggs, there might be bacon, there might be sausages, there might be
kidneys, or there might be kippers. I could not tell. But whatever there
was it was all right with Bertram. For I had laid my plans and formed my
schemes. The girl was on her way out by this time, and I estimated that
I had possibly fifty seconds- for the stem task before me. Allow twenty
for nipping in, three for snaffling the

works, and another twenty-five for getting back into the bushes again,
and one had all the makings of a successful enterprise. The moment the
door closed I was speeding on my way. I recked little whether anybody
saw me, and I should imagine that, had there been eyewitnesses, all they
would have seen would have been a sort of blur. I did the first leg of
the journey well inside the estimated time, and I had just laid hand on
the tray and was about to lift and remove, when there came from outside
the door the sound of footsteps. It was a moment for swift thought, and
such moments find Bertram Wooster at his best. This morning-room, I
should mention, was not the small morning-room where Dwight and little
Seabury had had their epoch-making turn-up. In fact, I am rather
misleading my public in alluding to it as a morning-room at all. It was
really a study or office, being the place where Chuffy did his estate
business, totted up his bills, brooded over the growing cost of
agricultural apparatus, and gave the tenants the bird when they called
to ask him to knock a bit off their rent. And* as you can't get very far
with that sort of thing unless you have a pretty good-sized desk, Chuffy
had most fortunately had one put in. It stood across one whole corner of
the room, and it seemed to beckon to me. Two and a half seconds later, I
was behind

it, crouching on the carpet and trying to breathe solely through the
pores. The next moment, the door opened and somebodycame in. Feet
crossed the floor, right up to the desk, and I heard the click as the
hidden hand removed the telephone receiver. " Chuffnell Regis,
two-niyun-four," said a voice, and conceive the sudden rush of relief
when I recognized it as one that I had many a time shaken hands with in
the past-the voice, in short, of a friend in need. " Oh, Jeeves," I
said, popping up like a jack-in the-box. You can't rattle Jeeves. Where
scullery maids had had hysterics and members of the Peerage had leaped
and quivered, he simply regarded me with respectful serenity and, after
a civil good morning, went on with the job in hand. He is a fellow who
likes to do things in their proper order. " Chuffnell Regis
two-niyun-four ? The Sea-view Hotel ? Could you inform me if Sir
Roderick Glossop is in his room ? . . . Not yet returned ? . . . Thank
you." He hung up the receiver, and was now at liberty to give the late
young master a spot of attention. " Good morning, sir," he said again. "
I was not expecting to see you here." " I know, but . . ." " I had
supposed that the arrangement was that we should meet at the Dower
House."

I shuddered a bit. " Jeeves," I said, " one brief word about the Dower
House, and then I should like the subject shelved indefinitely. I know
you meant well. I know that when you sent me there your motives were
pure to the last drop. But the fact remains that you were dispatching me
to a nasty salient. Do you know who was lurking in that House of Fear ?
Brinkley. Complete with chopper." " I am very sorry to hear that, sir.
Then I assume that you did not sleep there last night ? " " No, Jeeves,
I did not. I slept-if you can call it sleeping-in a summer-house. And I
was just creeping round through the bushes to try to find you, when I
saw that parlourmaid setting out food on the table in here." " His
lordship's breakfast, sir." " Where is he ? " " He should be down
shortly, sir. It is a most fortunate chance that her ladyship should
have instructed me to ring up the Seaview Hotel. Otherwise we might have
experienced some difficulty in establishing connection." " Yes. What was
all that, by the way ? That Seaview Hotel stuff." " Her ladyship is
somewhat exercised in her mind about Sir Roderick, sir. I fancy that on
reflection she has reached the conclusion that she did not treat him
well last night." " Mother Love not so hot this morning ? " " No, sir."

" And it's a case of ' Return and all will be forgiven ' ? " "
Precisely, sir.   But unfortunately. Sir Roderick appears to be missing,
and we can secure no information as to what has become of him." I was in
a position, of course, to explain and clarify, and I did so without
delay. " He's all right. After an invigorating session with Brinkley, he
went to my garage to get petrol. Was he correct in supposing that that
would clean him as well as butter ? " " Yes, sir." " Then I should think
he was on his way to London by now, if not actually in the Metropolis."
" I will notify her ladyship at once, sir. I imagine that the
information will serve sensibly to lessen her anxiety." " You really
think she loves him still and wishes to extend the amends honorable ? "
" Or olive branch ? Yes, sir. So, at least, I divined from her
demeanour. I was left with the impression that all the old love and
esteem were in operation once more." " And I'm very glad to hear it," I
said cordially. " For I must tell you, Jeeves, that since we last got
together I have completely changed my mind about the above Glossop. I
see now that there is much good in him. In the silent watches of the
night we formed what you wouldn't be far out in describing as

a beautiful friendship. We discovered each other's hidden merits, and he
left showering invitations to lunch." " Indeed, sir." ? "Absolutely.
From now on, there will always be a knife and fork for Bertram at the
Glossop lair, and the same for Roddy chez Bertram." " Very gratifying,
sir." " Most. So if you're chatting with Lady Chuffnell in the near
future, you can tell her that the match now has my full approval and
sanction. But all this, Jeeves," I proceeded, striking the practical
note, "is beside the point. The main issue is that I am sorely in need
of nourishment, and I want that tray. So hand it across and look
slippy." " You are proposing to eat his lordship's breakfast, sir ? " "
Jeeves," I said emotionally, and was about to go on to add that, if he
had any doubts as to what I was proposing to do to that breakfast, he
could remove them by standing to one side and watching me get action,
when once more I heard footsteps in the passage outside. Instead of
speaking along these lines, accordingly, I blenched, as near as a fellow
can blench when his face is all covered with boot polish, and broke off
with a brief heart cry. Once more I perceived that it had become
imperative that I vanish from the scene. These footsteps, I must
mention, were of the solid, sturdy, shoe-number-eleven type. It was

natural, therefore, that I should assume that it was Chuff y who now
stood without. And to encounter Chuffy, I need scarcely say, would have
been foreign to my policy. I have already indicated with, I think,
sufficient clearness, that he was not in sympathy with my aims and
objects. That interview we had had on the previous night had shown me
that he was to be reckoned as essentially one of the opposition -a
hostile element and a menace. Let him discover me here, and the first
thing I knew he would be locking me up somewhere in a spirit of
chivalrous zeal and sending messengers to old Stoker to drop round and
collect. Long, therefore, before the handle had turned I was down in the
depths like a diving duck. The door opened. A female voice spoke. No
doubt that of the future Mrs. Constable Dobson. " Mr. Stoker," it
announced. Large, flat feet clumped into the room

CHAPTER XVIII

BLACK WORK IN A STUDY

I WEDGED myself a little tighter in behind the old zareba. Not so good,
not so good, a voice seemed to be whispering in my ear. Of all the
unpleasant contingencies which could have arisen, this seemed to me
about the scaliest. Whatever might have been said against Chuff nell
Hall-and recent events had tended considerably to lessen its charm in my
eyes -I had supposed that you could put forward at least one thing in
its favour, viz. that there was no possible chance of encountering J.
Washbum Stoker on the premises. And, in spite of having my time fairly
fully occupied with feeling like a jelly, I was still able to experience
quite a spot of honest indignation at what I considered a dashed
unjustifiable intrusion on his part. I mean to say, if a man has thrown
his weight about in a stately home of England, ticking off the residents
and asserting positively that he jolly well isn't going to darken its
doors again, he has no right to come strolling in barely two days later
as if the place were an hotel with "Welcome" on the mat. I felt pretty
strongly about the whole thing. I was also wondering how Jeeves would

handle this situation. By this time a shrewd bloke like this Stoker was
bound to have guessed that his were the brains behind my escape, and it
seemed not unlikely that he would make some tentative move towards
scattering these brains on the hearth rug. His voice, when he spoke,
undoubtedly indicated that some such idea was floating in his mind. It
was harsh and roopy, and though all that he actually said by way of a
start was "Ah! " a determined man can get a lot of meaning into an " Ah
I " " Good morning, sir," said Jeeves. This business of lying curled up
behind desks cuts both ways. It has its advantages and its drawbacks.
Purely from the standpoint of the slinking fugitive, of course, fine.
Indeed, could scarcely be bettered. But against this must be set the
fact that it undoubtedly hampers a chap in his capacity of audience. The
effect now was much the same as if I had been listening-in to a dramatic
sketch on the wireless. I got the voices, but I missed the play of
expression. And I'd have given a lot to be able to see it. Not Jeeves's,
of course, because Jeeves never has any. But Stoker's, it seemed to me,
would have been well worth more than a casual glance. " So you're here,
are you ? " " Yes, sir." The next item was an extremely nasty laugh from
the visitor. One of those hard, short, sharp ones.

'* I came here because I wanted information        || about where Mr.
Wooster has got to. I thought that Lord Chuffnell might possibly have
seen him. I never reckoned I should run into you. Say, listen," said the
Stoker disease, suddenly hotting up, " do you know what I've a mind to
do to you ? " " No, sir." " Break your damned neck." " Indeed, sir ? " "
Yes." I heard Jeeves cough. " A little extreme, sir, surely ? I can
appreciatethat the fact that I decided-somewhat abruptly, I admit-to
leave your employment and return to that of his lordship should occasion
displeasure on your part, but ..." " You know what I'm talking about. Or
are you going to deny that it was you who smuggled that guy Wooster off
my yacht ? " " No, sir. I admit that I was instrumental in restoring his
liberty to Mr. Wooster. In the course of a conversation which I had with
him, Mr. Wooster informed me that he was being detained on the vessel
ultra wires, and, acting in your best interests, I released him. At that
time, you will recall, sir, I was in your employment,and I felt it my
duty to save you from what might have been an extremely serious
contretemps." I couldn't see, of course, but I received the impression
from a certain amount of gurgling

and snorting which he put in during these remarks that old Stoker would
have been glad to have the floor a bit earlier. I could have told him it
wasn't any good. You can't switch Jeeves off when he has something to
say which he feels will be of interest. The only thing is to stand by
and wait till he runs down> But though he had now done so, it wasn't
right away that the party of the second part started anything in the
nature of a counter-speech. I imagine that the substance of Jeeves's
little talk had given him food for thought. In this conjecture, it
appeared that I was correct. Old Stoker breathed a bit tensely for
awhile, then he spoke in almost an awed voice. It's often that way when
you get up against Jeeves. He has a way of suggesting new viewpoints. "
Are you crazy or am I ? " " Sir ? " " Save me, did you say, from--? " "
A contretemps ? Yes, sir. I cannot make the assertion authoritatively,
for I am not certain to what extent the fact that Mr. Wooster came on
board the yacht of his own volition would weigh with a jury ..." "Jury?"
"... but his detention on the vessel despite his expressed desire to
leave would, I am inclined to imagine, constitute an act of kidnapping,
the penalties for which, as you are no doubt aware, sir, are very
severe." " But, say, listen . . .! "

" England is an extremely law-abiding country, sir, and offences which
might pass unnoticed in your own land are prosecuted here with the
greatest rigour. My knowledge of legal minutia is, I regret to say,
slight, so I cannot asseverate with perfect confidence that this
detention of Mr. Wooster would have ranked as an act in contravention of
the criminal code, and, as such, liable to punishment with penal
servitude, but undoubtedly, had I not intervened, the young gentleman
would have been in a position to bring a civil action and mulct you in
very substantial damages. So, acting, as I say, in your best interests,
sir, I released Mr. Wooster." There was a silence. " Thanks," said old
Stoker mildly. " Not at all, sir." " Thank you very much." " I did what
I considered the only thing that could avert a most disagreeable
contingency, sir." " Darned good of you." I must say I can't see why
Jeeves shouldn't go down in legend and song. Daniel did, on the strength
of putting in half an hour or so in the lions' den and leaving the dumb
chums in a condition of suavity and camaraderie ; and if what Jeeves had
just done wasn't entitled to rank well above a feat like that, I'm no
judge of form. In less than five minutes he had reduced this ravening
Stoker from a sort of human wildcat to a positive domestic pet. If

I hadn't been there and heard it, I wouldn't have believed it was
possible. " I've got to think about this," said old Stoker, milder than
ever. " Yes, sir." " I hadn't looked at it that way before. Yes, sir,
I've got to think about this. I believe I'll go for a walk and mull it
over in my mind. Lord Chuffnell hasn't seen Mr. Wooster, has he ? " "
Not since last night, sir." " Oh, he saw him last night, did he ? Which
way was he headed ? " " I rather fancy it was Mr. Wooster's intentionto
pass the night in the Dower House and return to London today." " The
Dower House ? That's that place across the park ? " " Yes, sir." " I
might look in there. It seems to me the first thing I've got to do is
have a talk with Mr. Wooster." " Yes, sir." I heard him go out through
the French window, but it wasn't till another moment or two had passed
that I felt justified in coming to the surface. It being reasonable to
suppose by then that the coast was clear, I poked the head up over the
desk. " Jeeves," I said, and if there were tears in the eyes, what of it
? We Woosters are not afraid to confess honest emotion, " there is none
like you, none."

" It is extremely kind of you to say so, sir." " It was all I could do
to keep from leaping out and shaking your hand." " It would scarcely
have been judicious, in the circumstances, sir." " That's what I
thought. Your father wasn't a snake-charmer, was he, Jeeves ? " " No,
sir." " It just crossed my mind. What do you think will happen when old
Stoker gets to the Dower House ? " " We can only conjecture, sir." " My
fear is that Brinkley may have slept it off by now." " There is that
possibility, sir." "" Still, it was a kindly thought, sending the fellow
there, and we must hope for the best. After all, Brinkley still has that
chopper. I say, do you think Chuff y is really coming down ? " " At any
moment, I fancy, sir." " Then you wouldn't advise my eating his
breakfast ? " "No, sir." " But I'm starving, Jeeves." " I am extremely
sorry, sir. The position at the moment is a little difficult. Later on,
no doubt, I may be able to alleviate your distress." " Have you had
breakfast, Jeeves ? " " Yes, sir." " What did you have ? " " The juice
of an orange, sir, followed by Cute

Crispies--an American cereal-scrambled eggs with a slice of bacon, and
toast and marmalade." " Oh, gosh I The whole washed down, no doubt, with
a cup of strengthening coffee ? " " Yes, sir." " Oh, my God I You really
don't think I could just sneak a single sausage ? " " I would scarcely
advocate it, sir. And it is a small point, but his lordship is having
kippers." " Kippers I " " And this, I fancy, will be his lordship coming
now, sir." So down once more into the lower levels for Bertram. And I
had hardly fitted myself into the groove when the door opened. A voice
spoke. " Why, hallo, Jeeves." " Good morning, miss." It was Pauline
Stoker. I must say I was a bit peeved. Chuffnell Hall, whatever its
other defects, should, as I have pointed out, have been entirely free
from Stokers. And here they were, absolutely overrunningthe place like
mice. I was quite prepared to find something breathing in my ear and
look round and see little Dwight. I mean to say, I was feeling-bitterly,
I admit-that if this was going to be an Old Home Week of Stokers, one
might as well make the thing complete. Pauline had begun to sniff
vigorously. " What's that I smell, Jeeves ? "

" Kippered herrings, miss." " Whose ? " ' His lordship's, miss." " Oh. I
haven't had breakfast yet, Jeeves." " No, miss ? " " No. Father yanked
me out of bed and had me half-way here before I was properly awake. He's
all worked up, Jeeves." " Yes, miss. I have just been having a
conversation with Mr. Stoker. He did appear somewhat overwrought." " All
the way here he was talking about what he was going to do if he ever
found you again. And now you tell me he did find you. What happened ?
Didn't he eat you ? " "No, miss." " Probably on a diet. Well, where has
he got to ? They told me he was in here." " Mr. Stoker left a moment ago
with the intention of visiting the Dower House, miss. I think he hopes
to find Mr. Wooster there." " Somebody ought to warn that poor sap." ' "
You need experience no anxiety for Mr. Wooster, miss. He is not at the
Dower House." " Where is he ? " " Elsewhere, miss." " Not that I care
where he is. Do you remember my telling you last night, Jeeves, that I
was thinking of becoming Mrs. Bertram W. ?" " Yes, miss." "Well, I'm
not. So you needn't save up for that fish slice, after all. I've changed
my mind."

" I am glad to hear that, miss." So was I. Her words were music to my
ears. " Glad, are you ? " " Yes, miss. I doubt whether the union would
have been a successful one. Mr. Wooster is an agreeable young gentleman,
but I would describe him as essentially one of Nature's bachelors." "
Besides being mentally negligible ? " " Mr. Wooster is capable of acting
very shrewdly on occasion, miss." " So am I. And that is why I say that,
no matter if father does tear the roof off, I am not going to marry that
poor, persecuted lamb. Why should I ? I've nothing against him." There
was a pause. " I've just been talking to Lady Chuffnell, Jeeves." " Yes,
miss." " Apparently she has had a little domestic trouble, too." " Yes,
miss. There was an unfortunate rift between her ladyship and Sir
Roderick Glossop last night. Now, I am glad to say, her ladyship appears
to have thought matters over and decided that she made a mistake in
severing relations with the gentleman." " One does think things over,
doesn't one ? " " Almost invariably, miss." " And a fat lot of use that
is, if the severed relation doesn't think them over too. Have you seen
Lord Chuffnell this morning, Jeeves ? "

BLACK WORK IN A STUDY   26l

" Yes, miss." " How was he looking ? " " Somewhat worried, it seemed to
me, miss." " He was ? " " Yes, miss." " H'm. Well, I won't keep you from
your professional duties, Jeeves; smack into them right away, as far as
I'm concerned." " Thank you, miss. Good morning." For some moments after
the door closed I remained motionless. I was passing the positionof
affairs under thoughtful review. To a certain extent you might say that
relief was tingling through the veins like some rare wine, causing
satisfaction and mental uplift. In the plainest possible language,
weighing her words and speaking without dubiety or equivocation, this
girl Pauline had stated that not even the strongest measures on the part
of her father would induce her to shove on the old bridal veil and step
up the aisle at my side. So far, so good. But had she thoroughly
estimated that father's powers of persuasion ? That was "what I asked
myself. Had she ever seen him when he was really going good ? Was she
aware of what a Force he could be when in mid-season form ? In a word,
did she realise what she was up against, and know that to attempt to
thwart J. Washburn Stoker, when in spate, was like entering a jungle and
taking on the first couple of wildcats you encountered ?

It was this thought which prevented my rapture from being complete. It
seemed to me that, in opposing her will to that of a bally retired
pirate like this male parent of hers, the frail girl was going out of
her class and that her resistance to his matrimonial plans would be
useless. And I was musing thus when I suddenly heard the sloosh of
coffee in a cup, and a moment later there came what Drexdale Yeats would
have called a metallic clang, and with profound emotion I divined that
Pauline, unable to resist the sight of that tray any longer, had poured
herself out a steaming beaker and was getting at the kippers. For there
was no longer any possible room for doubt as to the correctness of
Jeeves's information. It was the scent of kippered herrings that was now
wafted to me like a benediction, and I clenched my fists till the
knuckles stood out white beneath the strain. I could mark every mouthful
and each in turn went through me like a knife. It's odd, the effect
hunger has on one. You can't tell what you will do under the stress of
it. Let the most level-headed bird get really peckish, and he will throw
prudence to the winds. I did so at this point. Obviously the sound
scheme was for me to remain under cover and wait till all these Stoker?
and what not blew over, and that was the policy which, in a calmer frame
of mind, I would have pursued. But the smell of those kippers and the

knowledge that with every moment that passed they were melting away like
snow upon the mountain tops and that pretty soon all the toast would be
gone as well, was too powerful for me. I came up from behind that desk
like a minnow on a hook. " Hi! " I said, speaking with a strong note of
pleading in my voice. It's rummy how experience never teaches us. I had
seen the reaction of the scullerymaid to my sudden appearance. I had
noted its effect on old Chuffy. And I had watched Sir Roderick Glossop
at the moment of impact. Yet here I was, bobbing up in just the same
sudden fashion as before. And exactly the same thing happened again. If
anything, rather more so. At the moment, Pauline Stoker was busy with a
mouthful of kipper, and this for the nonce cramped her freedom of
expression, so that all that occurred for about a second and a quarter
was that a pair of horrified eyes stared into mine. Then the barrier of
kipper gave way, and one of the most devastating yowls of terror I've
ever heard in my puff ripped through the air. It coincided with the
opening of the door        tj and the appearance on the threshold of the
fifth Baron Chuffnell. And the next moment he had dashed at her and
gathered her in his arms, and she had dashed at him and been gathered.
They couldn't have done it more neatly if they had been rehearsing for
weeks.

CHAPTER XIX

PREPARATIONS FOR HANDLING FATHER

I ALWAYS maintain that it is by a chap's behaviour on this sort of
occasion that you can really weigh him in the balance and judge if he's
got the right chivalrous delicacy in him or not. It is the acid test.
Come to me and say to me " Wooster, you know me pretty well. Tell me
something. To settle a bet, would you consider that I was a preux
chevalier, as the expression is ? " and I reply " My dear Bates, or
Cuthbertson, or whatever the name may be, I shall be able to answer that
question better if you will indicate what you would do if you happened
to be in a room where two loving hearts, after a painful
misunderstanding, were in the process of getting together again on a
basis of chumminess and mutual esteem. Would you duck down behind the
desk ? Or would you stand there and drink the performance in with
bulging eyes ? " My own views are rigid. When a lovers' reconciliation
is in progress, I do not remain goggling. As far as the conditions will
permit, I withdraw and leave them to it. But though, with the desk
between us, I could not see these two, I could hear them, and

most unpleasant it was. I have known Chuffy, as I say, practically from
childhood, and in the course of the years I have seen him in a variety
of; differing circumstances and in many moods. Ahd I never would have
believed him capable o^ the revolting slush which now proceeded from his
lips at the rate of about two hundred and filty words to the minute.
When I tell you that the observation " There, there, little girl! " was
the only one I can bring myself to quote, you will be able to gather
something of the ordeal to which I was subjected. And, to make matters
worse, on an empty stomach, mind you. Pauline, meanwhile, was
contributing little or nothing to the dialogue. Until this moment I had
considered that, in the matter of emotional reaction to my appearance,
the scullery maid had set a mark at which others who met me suddenly
might shoot in vain. But Pauline eclipsed Her completely.  She remained
in Chuffy's arms gurgling like a leaky radiator, and it was only quite
some little time later that she began to regain anything of a grip on
her faculties. The girl seemed goofy. I suppose the fact of the matter
was that at the moment when I manifested myself she was undergoing a
considerable mental strain, and that my appearance served, as it were,
to put the tin hat on it. At any rate, she continued to give this
radiator impersonation of hers so long that in the end it seemed to
strike Chuffy that it

a66   thank you, jeeves was about time he switched off the murmured
endearments and got down to first causes. " But, darling," I heard him
say. " What was it, angel ? What scared you, sweetheart ? Tell me,
precious. Did you see something, pet ? " It seemed to me that the moment
had come to join the meeting. I rose above the top of the desk, and
Pauline shied like a frightened horse. It annoyed me, I confess. Bertram
Wooster is not accustomed to causing convulsionsin the gentler sex. As a
matter of fact, usually when girls see me, they incline rather to the
amused smile, or, on occasion, to the weary sigh and the despairing "
Oh, are you here again, Bertie ? " But better even that than this stark
horror. " Hallo, Chuffy," I said. " Nice day." You might have thought
that relief would have been the emotion uppermost in Pauline Stoker's
bosom on discovering that the cause of her panic was merely an old
friend. But no. She absolutely glared at me. " You poor goof," she
cried, " what's the big idea, playing hide-and-go-seek like that and
scaring people stiff ? And I don't know if you know it, but you've got a
smut on your face." Nor was Chuffy behindhand in the recriminations. "
Bertie I " he said, in a sort of moaning way. " My God!  I might have
guessed it would be you. You really are without

exception the most completely drivelling lunatic that was ever at
large." I felt it was time to check this sort of thing pretty sharply. "
I regret," I said, with a cold hauteur, " that I startled this young
fathead, but my motives in concealing myself behind that desk were based
on prudence and sound reasoning. And, talking of lunatics, Chuffnell,
don't forget that I was compelled to overhear what you have been saying
for the last five minutes." I was pleased to see the blush of shame
mantle his cheek. He shuffled uncomfortably. " You oughtn't to have
listened." " You don't imagine that I wanted to listen, do you ? "
Something of defrance or bravado came into his manner. " And why the
devil shouldn't I talk like that ? I love her, blast you, and I don't
care who knows it." " Oh, quite," I said, with a scarcely veiled
contempt. " She's the most marvelous thing on earth." " No, you are,
darling," said Pauline. " No, you are, angel," said Chuffy. " No, you
are, sweetness." " No, you are, precious." " Please," I said. " Please I
" Chuffy gave me a nasty look. " You were saying, Wooster ? " " Oh,
nothing."

" I thought you made a remark." " Oh, no." " Good. You'd better not."
The first nausea had worn off somewhat by this time, and it was a
kindlier Bertram Wooster who now displayed himself. I am a broadminded
man, and I reflected charitably that it was wrong to be hard on a fellow
in Chuffy's situation. After all, in the special circumstanceshe could
scarcely be expected to preserve the decencies. I struck a conciliatory
note. " Chuffy, old man," I said, " we must not allow ourselves to
brawl. This is a moment for the genial eye and the affable smile. No one
could be more delighted than myself that you and this old friend of mine
have buried the dead past and started all square again together. I may
look on myself as an old friend, may I not ? " She beamed in a cordial
manner. " Well, I should hope so, you poor ditherer, Why, I knew you
before I ever met Marmaduke." I turned to Chuffy. " This Marmaduke
business. I want to take that up with you some time. Fancy you
keepingthat dark all these years." " There's nothing wrong in being
christened Marmaduke, is there ? " said Chuffy, a little heatedly. *
Nothing wrong, no. But we shall all have a good laugh about it at the
Drones."

" Bertie,'' said Chuffy tensely, " if you breathe a word of it to those
blighters at the Drones, I'll track you to the ends of the earth and
strangle you with my bare hands." " Well, well, we must see, we must
see. But, as I was saying, I am delighted that this reconciliation has
taken place. Being, as I am, one of Pauline's closest friends. We had
some pretty good times together in the old days, didn't we ? " " You
bet." " That day at Piping Rock." " Ah." " And do you remember the night
the car broke down and we were stranded for hours somewhere in the wilds
of Westchester County in the rain ? " " I should say so." " Your feet
got wet, and I very wisely took your stockings off." " Here I " said
Chuffy. " Oh, it's all right, old man. I conducted myself throughout
with the nicest propriety. All I am trying to establish is that I am an
old friend of Pauline's and am consequently entitled to rejoice at the
present situation. There are few more charming girls than this P.
Stoker, and you are lucky to have won her, old man, in spite of the fact
that she is handicapped by possessing a father who bears a striking
resemblance to something out of the Book of Revelations."

" Father's a good enough egg if you rub him the right way." " You hear
that, Chuffy ?  In rubbing this bally old thug, be sure to do it the
right way." " He is not a bally old thug." " Pardon me. I appeal to
Chuffy." Chuffy scratched his chin. Somewhat embarrassed. " I must say,
angel, he does strike me at times as a bit above the odds." " Exactly,"
I said. " And never forget that he is resolved that Pauline shall marry
me." " What I " " Didn't you know that ? Oh, yes." Pauline was wearing a
sort of Joan of Arc look. " I'm darned if I'll marry you, Bertie." *'
The right spirit," I said approvingly. " But can you preserve that
intrepid attitude when you see Pop breathing flame through his nostrils
and chewing broken bottles in the foreground ? Will you not, if I may
coin a phrase, be afraid of the big bad wolf ? " She wavered a bit. "
We're going to have a tough time with him, of course. I can see that.
He's pretty sore with you, angel, you know." Chuffy puffed out his
chest. " I'll attend to him I " "No," I said firmly, " I will attend to
him. Leave the whole conduct of the affair to me."

Pauline laughed. I didn't like it. It seemed to me to have a derogatory
ring. " You I Why, you poor lamb, you would run a mile if Father so much
as said ' Boo I' to you." I raised the eyebrows. " I anticipate no such
contingency. Why should he say ' Boo I ' to me ? I mean, a damn silly
thing for anybody to say to anyone. And even if he did make that idiotic
observation, the effects would not be such as you have outlined. That I
was once a little on the nervous side in your parent's presence, I
admit. But no longer. Not any more. The scales have fallen from my eyes.
Recently I have seen him in the space of something under three minutes
reduced by Jeeves from a howling blizzard to a gentle breeze, and his
spell is broken. When he comes, you may leave him to me with every
confidence. I shall not be rough with him, but I shall be very firm."
Chuffy looked a bit thoughtful. " Is he coming ? " Outside in the
garden, footsteps had become audible. Also heavy breathing. I jerked a
thumb at the window. " This, if I mistake not, Watson," I said, " is our
client now."

CHAPTER  XX

JEEVES   HAS   NEWS

AND so it was. A substantial form appeared against the summer sky. It
entered. It took a seat. And, having taken a seat, it hauled out a
handkerchief and started to mop the brow. A bit preoccupied, I divined,
and my trained sense enabled me to recognize the symptoms. They were
those of a man who had just been hobnobbing with Brinkley. That this
diagnosis was correct was proved a moment later when, lowering the
handkerchief for a space, he disclosed what had all the makings of a
very sweetish black eye. Pauline, sighting this, uttered a daughterly
yip. " What on earth has been happening, Father ? " Old Stoker breathed
heavily. " I couldn't get at the fellow," he said, with a sort of wild
regret in his voice. " What fellow ? " " I don't know who he was. Some
lunatic in that Dower House. He stood there at the window, throwing
potatoes at me. I had hardly knocked at the door, when he was there at
the window, throwing potatoes. Wouldn't come out like a man and let me
get at him. Just stood at the window, throwing potatoes."

I confess that, as I heard these words, a sort of reluctant admiration
for this bloke Brinkley stole over me. We could never be friends, of
course, but one had to admit that he was a man who could do the right
and public-spirited thing when the occasion called. I took it that old
Stoker's banging on the knocker had roused him from a morning-after
reverie to the discovery that he had a pretty nasty headache, and that
he had instantly started to take steps through the proper channels. All
most satisfactory. " You can consider yourself dashed lucky," I said,
pointing out the bright side, " that the fellow elected to deal with you
at long range.        | For close-quarters work he usually employs a
carving knife or a chopper, and a good deal of clever footwork is called
for." He had been so wrapped up in his own concerns till now that I
don't think he had got on to the fact that Bertram was with him once
more. At any rate, he stared quite a bit. " Ah, Stoker," I said airily,
to help him out. He continued to goggle. "Are you Wooster ? " he asked,
in what seemed to me a rather awed way. " Still Wooster, Stoker, old
man," I said cheerily. " First, last, and all the time Bertram Wooster."
He was looking from Chuffy to Pauline and back again almost pleadingly,
as if seeking comfort and support. " What the devil has he done to his
face ? "

" Sunburn," I said. " Well, Stoker," I proceeded, anxious to get the
main business of the day settled, " it's most convenient that you should
have dropped in like this. I've been looking for you . . . well, that's
putting it a bit loosely, perhaps, but, anyway, I'm glad to see you now,
because I've been wanting to tell you that that idea of yours about your
daughter and me getting married is off. Forget it, Stoker. Abandon it.
Wash it right out. Nothing to it, at all." It would be difficult to
overpraise the magnificent courage and firmness with which I spoke. In
fact, for a moment I rather wondered if I mightn't have overdone it a
little, because I caught Pauline's eye and there was such a look of
worshipping reverence in it that it seemed quite on the cards that,
overcome by my glamour at this juncture, she might decide that I was her
hero, after all, and switch back again from Chuffy to me. This thought
caused me to go on a bit quickly to the next item on the agenda. " She's
going to marry Chuffy-Lord Chuffnell -him," I said, indicating C. with a
wave of the hand. " What 1 " " Yes. All set." Old Stoker gave a powerful
snort. He was deeply moved. " Is this true ? " " Yes, father." "Oh! You
intend to marry a man who calls

your father a pop-eyed old swindler, do you?" I was intrigued. " Did you
call him a pop-eyed old swindler, Chuffy ? " Chuffy hitched up a lower
jaw which had sagged a bit. " Certainly not," he said weakly. " You
did," said Stoker. " When I told you I was not going to buy this house
of yours." " Oh, well," said Chuffy. " You know how it is." Pauline
intervened. She seemed to be feeling that the point was being wandered
from. Women like to stick to the practical issue. " Anyway, I'm going to
marry him, father." " You are not." " I am too. I love him." " And only
yesterday you were in love with this damned sooty-faced imbecile here."
I drew myself up. We Woosters can make allowances for a father's
chagrin, but there is a sharply defined limit. " Stoker," I said, " you
forget yourself strangely. I must ask you to preserve the decencies of
debate. And it isn't soot-It's boot polish." " I wasn't," cried Pauline.
" You said you were." " Well, I wasn't." Old Stoker got off another of
his snorts. " The fact of the matter is, you don't know

your own mind, and I'm going to make it up for you." "I'm not going to
marry Bertie, whatever you say." " Well, you're certainly not going to
marry a fortune-hunting English lord." Chuffy took this fairly big. **
What do you mean, a fortune-hunting English lord ? " " I mean what I
say. You haven't a cent, and you're trying to marry a girl in Pauline's
position. Why, darn it, you're just like that fellow in that musical
comedy I saw once . . . what was the name . . . Lord Wotwotleigh." An
animal cry escaped Chuffy's ashen lips. " Wotwotleigh I " " The living
spit of him. Same sort of face, same expression, same way of talking.
I've been wondering all along who it was you reminded me of, and now I
know. Lord Wotwotleigh." Pauline charged in again. " You're talking
perfect nonsense, father. The whole trouble all along was that Marmaduke
was so scrupulous and chivalrous that he wouldn't ask me to marry him
till he felt he had enough money. I couldn't think what was the matter
with him. And then you promised to buy Chuffnell Hall, and five minutes
later he came bounding up to me and started proposing.If you didn't mean
to buy the Hall, you ought not to have said you would. And I don't see
why you won't, either."

" I was planning to buy it because Glossop asked me to," said old
Stoker. " The way I feel towards that guy now, I wouldn't buy a peanut
stand to please him." I felt impelled to put in a word. " Not a bad
sort, old Glossop. I like him." " You can have him." " What first
endeared him to me was the way he set about little Seabury last night.
It seemed to me to argue the right outlook." Stoker was staring with his
left eye. The other had now closed like some tired flower at nightfall.
I couldn't help feeling that Brinkley must have been a jolly good shot
to have plugged him so squarely. It's not the easiest thing in the world
to hit a fellow in the eye with a potato at a longish range. I know,
because I've tried it. The very nature of the potato, it being a rummy
shape and covered with knobs, renders accurate aiming a tricky business.
" What's that you're saying ? Glossop soaked that boy ? " " With a will,
they tell me." " Well, I'm darned I " I don't know if you've ever seen
one of those films where the tough guy hears the old song    his mother
used to teach him at her knee and you get a close-up of his face working
and before you know where you are he's a melted man and off doing lots
of good to all and sundry. A bit sudden I've always looked on it as, but
you can take it from me that these lightning

softenings do occur. Because now before our very eyes old Stoker was
undergoing one of them. One moment he had been absolutely the man of
chilled steel. The next, he was practically human. He stared at me,
speechless. Then he licked his lips. " You really tell me old Glossop
did that ? " " I was not present in person, but I have it straight from
Jeeves, who got it from Mary, the parlourmaid, who was an eyewitness
throughout. He put it across little Seabury properly-at a venture, I
should say with the back of a hairbrush." " Well, I'm darned I " Pauline
was doing a bit of eye-sparkling, You could see that hope had dawned
once more. I'm not sure she didn't clap her hands in girlish ^lee. " You
see, father. You got him all wrong. He's really a splendid man. You'll
have to go to him and tell him you're sorry you were so snooty and that
you're going to buy the house for him, after all." Well, I could have
told the poor cloth-head that she was doing the wrong thing, butting in
like this. Girls have no idea of handling any situation that calls for
nice tact. I mean to say. Jeeves will tell you that on these occasions
the whole thing is to study the psychology of the individual, and an owl
could have seen what old Stoker's psychology was like. A male owl, that
is. He was one of those fellows who

get their backs up the minute they think their nearest and dearest are
trying to shove them i3?to anything; a chap who, as the Bible puts it,
if you say Go, he cometh, and if you say Come, he goeth ; a fellow, in a
word, who, if he came to a door with " Push " on it, would always pull.
And I was right. Left to himself, this Stoker in about another
half-minute would have been dancing round the room, strewing roses out
of his hat. He was within a short jump of becoming a thing compact
entirely of sweetness and light. Now he suddenly stiffened, and a mulish
look came into his eye. You could see his haughty spirit resented being
rushed. " I won't do anything of the sort! " " Oh, father 1 " " Telling
me what I'm to do and what I'm not to do." " I didn't mean it like
that." " Never mind how you meant it." Affairs had taken an unpleasant
turn. Old Stoker was gruffling to himself like a not too sunny bulldog.
Pauline was looking as if she had recently taken a short-arm punch in
the solar plexus. Chuffy had the air of a man who        ^ has not yet
recovered from being compared to Lord Wotwotleigh. And, as for me, while
I could see that it was a moment that called for the intervention of a
silver-tongued orator, I        | felt it wasn't much use having a pop
at being a silver-tongued orator if one hadn't anything to say, and I
hadn't.

So all that occurred was a good deal of silence, and this silence was
still in progress and getting momentarily stickier, when there was a
knock at the door and in floated Jeeves. " Excuse me, sir," he said,
shimmering towards old Stoker and presenting an envelope on a salver.  "
A seaman from your yacht has just brought this cablegram, which arrived
shortly after your departure this morning. The captain of the vessel,
fancying that it might be of an urgent nature, instructed him to convey
it to this house. I took it from him at the back door and hastened
hither with it in order to deliver it to you personally." The way he put
it made the whole thing seem like one of those great epics you read
about. You followed the procedure step by step, and the interest and
drama worked up to the big moment. Old Stoker, however, instead of being
thrilled, seemed somewhat on the impatient side. " What you mean is,
there's a cable for me." " Yes, sir." " Then why not say so, damn it,
instead of making a song about it. Do you think you're singing in opera,
or something ? Gimme." Jeeves handed over the missive with a dignified
reserve, and drifted out with salver. Stoker started to rip open the
envelope.

JEEVESHASNEWS      28l voice died away with a sort of sound not unlike
the last utterance of one of those toy dicks you inflate and then let
the air out of. His jaw had dropped, and he was staring at the cable as
if he had suddenly discovered he was fondling a tarantula. The next
moment there proceeded from his lips an observation which even in these
lax modern days I should certainly not have considered suitable for
mixed company. Pauline hopped towards him. Solicitous. When pain and
anguish racks the brow stuff. " What's the matter, father ? " Old Stoker
was making gulping noises. " It's happened I " " What has happened ? " "
What ? What ? " I saw Chuffy start. "What? What? I'll tell you what.
They're contesting old George's will! " " You don't mean that! " " I do
mean that. Read it for yourself." Pauline studied the document. She
looked up, rattled. " But if this goes through, bang goes our fifty
million." " Of course it does." " We shall't have a cent, hardly." Chuffy
came to life with a jerk. " Say that again I Do you mean you've lost all
your money ? " " It looks like it." "Fine!" said Chuffy. "Great.
Ripping. Wonderful. Topping. Splendid! "

Pauline gave a sort of jump. " Why, so it is, isn't it ? " " Of course
it is. I'm broke. You're broke. Let's rush off and get married." " Of
course." " This makes everything all right. Nobody can say I'm like
Wotwotleigh now." " They certainly can't." " Wotwotleigh, on hearing the
news, would have edged out." " I should say so. You wouldn't have been
able to see him for dust." " It's marvelous I " " It's magnificent! " "
In all my life, I've never heard of such a bit of luck as this." " Nor
have I." " Coming just at the right time." " Exactly at the right time."
" It's topping I " " It's simply great! " Their fresh young enthusiasm
seemed to affect old Stoker like a boil on the cheek bone. " Stop
talking that infernal rot and listen to me. Haven't you any sense at all
? What do you mean, you've lost your money ? Do you think I'm going to
lie down and let this go through without making any come-back ? They
haven't a dog's chance. Old George was as sane as I am, and I've got Sir
Roderick Glossop, the greatest alienist in England, to prove it." " But
you haven't."

"I've only to put Glossop on the witness stand, and their case collapses
like a bubble." '' But Sir Roderick won't testify for you now you've
quarrelled with him." Old Stoker sizzled a bit. Or fumed, if you care to
put it that way. " Who says I've quarrelled with him ? Show me the
half-wit who dares to assert that I'm not on the most cordial terms with
Sir Roderick Glossop. Just because we had a trifling, temporary
difference such as happens to the closest of friends, does that mean
that we're not like brothers ? " " But suppose he won't apologize to you
? " " There has never been any question of his apologizing to me. I
shall naturally apologize to him. I suppose I'm man enough to admit it
frankly when I realize that I have been in the wrong and have wounded my
best friend's feelings, aren't I ? Of course I shall apologize to him,
and he will accept my apology in the spirit in which it is given. There
is nothing small about Sir Roderick Glossop. I'll have him over in New
York, testifying his head off, inside of two weeks. What's the name of
that place he's staying at ? Seaview Hotel, isn't it ? I'll get him on
the wire at once and arrange a meeting." I had to put in a word here. "
He's not at the hotel. I know, because Jeeves was trying to get him just
now and drew a blank.*' " Then where is he ? " " I couldn't say." " He
must be somewhere.**

" Ah 1 " I said, following the reasoning and finding it sound. "So he
is, no doubt. But where? Quite possibly he's in London by now." " Why
London ? " " Why not ? " " Was he planning to go to London ? " " He may
have been." " What's his address in London ? " " I don't know." " Don't
any of you know ? " " I don't," said Pauline. " I don't," said Chuffy. "
A lot of use you are to a man," said old Stoker severely. " Get out!
We're busy." The remark was addressed to Jeeves, who had come floating
in again. It's one of this man's most remarkable properties, that now
you see him and now you don't. Or, rather, now you don't see him and now
you do. You're talking of this and that and you suddenly sense a
presence, so to speak, and there he is. " I beg your pardon, sir," said
Jeeves. " I was desirous of speaking to his lordship for a moment."
Chuffy waved a hand. Distrait. " Later on, Jeeves." " Very good,
m'lord." " We're a little busy just now." " Just so, m'lord." " Well,
it's not going to be so hard to locate a man of Sir Roderick's
eminence," said old

Stoker, resuming. " His address would be in Who's Who. Have you got a
Who's Who ? " " No," said Chuffy. Old Stoker flung the hands skyward. "
Good God I " Jeeves coughed. " If you will pardon me for intruding the
observation, sir, I think I can tell you where Sir Roderick is. If I am
right in supposing that it is Sir Roderick Glossop that you are anxious
to find ? " " Of course it is. How many Sir Rodericks do you think I
know ? Where is he, then ? " " In the garden, sir." " This garden, do
you mean ? " " Yes, sir." " Then go and ask him to come here at once.
Say that Mr. Stoker wishes to see him immediately on a matter of the
utmost importance.No, stop. Don't you go. I'll go myself. Whereabouts in
the garden did you see him ? " " I did not see him, sir. I was merely
informedthat he was there." Old Stoker clicked the tongue a bit. " Well,
damn it, whereabouts in the garden did whoever merely informed you that
he was in the garden merely inform you that he was ? " " In the
potting-shed, sir." " The potting-shed ? "                   ' " Yes,
sir." " What's he doing in the potting-shed ? " " Sitting, sir, I
imagine. As I say, I do not

speak from first-hand observation. My informant is Constable Dobson."
"Eh? What? Constable Dobson ? Who's he?" " The police officer who
arrested Sir Roderick last night, sir." He bowed slightly from the hips
and left the room.

CHAPTER  XXI

JEEVES   FINDS   THE   WAY

JEEVES I " bellowed Chuffy. " Jeeves I " screamed Pauline. " Jeeves 1 "
I shouted. " Hey I " yelled old Stoker. The door had closed, and I'll
swear it hadn't opened again. Nevertheless, there was the man in our
midst once more, an expression of courteous inquiry on his face. "
Jeeves I " cried Chuffy. " M'lord ? " ?< Jeeves I " shrieked Pauline. "
Miss ? " " Jeeves I " I vociferated. " Sir ? " " Hey, you I " boomed old
Stoker. Whether Jeeves liked being called " Hey, you 1 " I could not
say. His well-moulded face betrayed no resentment. " Sir ? " he said. "
What do you mean by going off like that ? " " I was under the impression
that his lordship,occupied with more vital matters, was not at-
leisure to attend to the communication I desired to make, sir. I planned
to return later, sir." " Well, stay put for a second, won't you ? "

" Certainly, sir. Had I been aware that you were desirous of speaking to
me, sir, I would not have withdrawn from the room. It was merely the
apprehension lest I might be intruding at a moment when my presence was
not desired . . ." " All right, all right, all right! " I noted, not for
the first time, that there was something about Jeeves's conversational
methods that seemed to jar upon old Stoker. " Never mind all that." "
Your presence is of the essence, Jeeves," I said. " Thank you, sir."
Chuffy took the floor, Stoker being occupied for the nonce with making a
noise like a wounded buffalo. " Jeeves." " M'lord ? " " Did you say that
Sir Roderick Glossop had been arrested ? " " Yes, m'lord. It was on that
point that I wished to speak to your lordship. I came to inform you that
Sir Roderick had been apprehendedby Constable Dobson last night and
placed in the potting-shed in the Hall grounds, the constable remaining
on guard at the door. The larger potting-shed, m'lord, not the smaller
one. The potting-shed to which I allude is the potting-shed on the right
as you enter the kitchen garden. It has a red-tiled roof, in
contradistinction to the smaller potting-shed, the roof of which is
constructed of . . ." I had never been, as you might say, fright

fully fond of J. Washburn Stoker, but it seemed only neighbourly at this
moment to try to save him from apoplexy. " Jeeves," I said. " Sir ? " "
Never mind which potting-shed." " No, sir." " Not of the essence." " I
quite understand, sir." " Then carry on, Jeeves." He cast a glance of
respectful commiseration at old Stoker, who seemed to be having a good
deal of trouble with his bronchial tubes. " It appears, m'lord, that
Constable Dobson arrested Sir Roderick at an advanced hour last night.
He was then in something of a quandary as to what means to take for his
disposal. You must understand, m'lord, that in the conflagration which
destroyed Mr. Wooster's cottage that of Sergeant Voules, which is
contiguous, was also burned down. And as this cottage of Sergeant
Voules's is also the local police station. Constable Dobson was not
unnaturally somewhat at a loss to know where to place his prisoner-the
more so as Sergeant Voules was not there to advise him, he, in fighting
the flames, having sustained an unfortunate injury to his head and
having been removed to the house of his aunt. I refer to his Aunt Maud,
who resides in Chuffnell Regis, not . . ." I did the square thing again.
" Never mind which aunt, Jeeves." t

" No, sir." " Scarcely germane." " Quite so, sir." "Then carry on,
Jeeves." " Very good, sir. So in the end, acting upon his own
initiative, the constable arrived at the conclusion that as secure a
place as any would be the potting-shed, the larger potting-shed ..." "
We understand, Jeeves. The one with the tiled roof." " Precisely, sir.
He, therefore, placed Sir Roderick in the larger potting-shed, and
remained on guard there throughout the remainder of the night. Some
little time ago, the gardeners came on duty and the constable, summoning
one of them-a young fellow named ..." " All right, Jeeves." " Very good,
sir. Summoning this young fellow, he dispatched him to the temporary
residence of Sergeant Voules in the hope that the latter would now be
sufficiently restored to be able to interest himself in the matter.
Such, it appears, was the case. A night's sleep, acting in conjunction
with a naturally robust constitution, had enabled Sergeant Voules to
rise at his usual hour and partake of a hearty breakfast." " Breakfast!
" I couldn't help murmuring in spite of my iron self-control. The word
had touched an exposed nerve in Bertram. " On receiving the
communication. Sergeant Voules hastened to the Hall to interview his
lordship."

" Why his lordship ? " " His lordship is a Justice of the Peace, sir." "
Of course, yes." " And, as such, has the power to commit the prisoner to
incarceration in a more recognized prison. He is waiting in the library
now, m'lord. till your lordship is at leisure to see him." If the word "
breakfast " was, as it were, the key word that had the power to set
Bertram Wooster a-quiver, it appeared that " prison " was the one that
tickled old Stoker up properly. He uttered a hideous cry. " But how can
he be in prison ? What's he got to do with prisons ? Why does this fool
of a cop think he ought to be in prison ? " " The charge, I understand,
sir, is one of burglary." " Burglary I " " Yes, sir." Old Stoker looked
so piteously at me-why me, I don't know, but he did-that I nearly patted
him on the head. In fact, I might quite easily have done so, had not my
hand been stayed by a sudden noise in my rear like that made by a
frightened hen or a rising pheasant. The Dowager Lady Chuffnell had come
charging into the room. " Marmaduke I " she cried, and I can give no
better indication of her emotion than by saying that as she spoke her
eyes rested on my face and it made no impression on her whatsoever. For
all the notice she took of it, I might have

been the Great White Chief. " Marmaduke, I have the most terrible news.
Roderick ..." " All right," said Chuffy, a little petulantly, I thought.
" We've had it too. Jeeves is just telling us.'' " But what are we to do
?" " I don't know." " And it is all my fault, all my fault." " Oh, don't
say that, Aunt Myrtle," said Chuffy, rattled but still Rreux. " You
couldn't have helped it." " I could. I could. I shall never forgive
myself. If it had not been for me, he would never have gone out of the
house with that black stuff on his face." I was really sorry for poor
old Stoker. One thing after another, I mean to say. His eyes came out of
his head like a snail's. " Black stuff ? " he gurgled faintly. " He had
covered his face with burnt cork to amuse Seabury." Old Stoker tottered
to a chair and sank into it. He seemed to be thinking that this was one
of those stories you could listen to better sitting down. " You can only
remove the horrible stuff with butter . . ." " And petrol, so the
cognoscenti tell me," I couldn't help putting in. I like to keep these
things straight. " You support me, Jeeves ? Petrol does the trick ? " "
Yes, sir."

" Well, petrol, then. Petrol or butter. At any rate, it was to get
something that would take the stuff off that he must have broken into
this house. And now . . .! " She cheesed it in mid-sentence, deeply
moved. Not, however, any more deeply than old Stoker, who seemed to be
more or less passing through the furnace. " This is the finish," he
said, in a sort of pale voice. " This is where I drop fifty million
dollars and try to like it. A lot of use any testimony in a lunacy case
is going to be from a fellow who gets himself pinched while wandering
around the country in black face. Why, there isn't a judge in America
who wouldn't rule out anything he said on the ground that he was crazy
himself." Lady Chuffnell quivered. " But he did it to please my son." "
Anybody who would do anything to please a young hound like that," said
old Stoker, " must have been crazy." He emitted a mirthless 1. " Well,
the joke's on me, all right. Yes, the joke's certainly on me. I stake
everything on the evidence of this man Glossop. I rely on him to save my
fifty million by testifying that old George wasn't loco. And two minutes
after I've put him on the stand, the other side'U come right back at me
by showing that my expert is a loony himself, loonier than ever old
George could have been if he'd tried for a thousand years. It's funny
when you come to

think of it. Ironical. Reminds one of that thing about Lo somebody's
name led all the rest." Jeeves coughed. He had that informative gleam of
his in his eyes. " Abou ben Adhem, sir." " Have I -what ? " said old
Stoker, puzzled. " The poem to which you allude relates to a certain
Abou ben Adhem, who, according to the story, awoke one night from a deep
dream of peace to find an angel ..." " Get out! " said old Stoker, very
quietly. " Sir ? " " Get out of this room before I murder you." " Yes,
sir." " And take your angels with you." " Very good, sir." The door
closed. Old Stoker puffed out his breath in a stricken sort of way. "
Angels I " he said. " At a time like this 1 " I felt it only fair to
stick up for Jeeves. " He was perfectly right," I said. " I used to know
the thing by heart at school. This cove found an angel sitting by his
bed, writing in a book, don't you know, and the upshot of the whole
affair was . . . Oh, all right, if you don't want to hear." I withdrew
to a corner of the room and picked up a photograph album. A Wooster does
not thrust his conversation upon the unwilling. From some time after
this there was a good deal of what you might call mixed chatter, in
which-through dudgeon-I took no part.

Everybody talked at once, and nobody said anything that you could have
described as being in the least constructive. Except old Stoker, who
proved that I had been right in thinking that he must at one time have
been a pirate of the Spanish or some other Main by coming boldly out
with a suggestion for a rescue party. " What's the matter," he wanted to
know, " with going and breaking the door down and gettinghim out and
smuggling him away and hiding him somewhere and letting these darned
cops run circles round themselves, trying to find him ? " Chuffy
demurred. " We couldn't." " Why not ? " " You heard Jeeves sayDobsonwas
on guard." " Bat him over the head with a shovel." Chuffy didn't seem to
like this idea much. I suppose, if you're a J.P., you have to be careful
what you do. Bat policemen over the head with shovels, and the County
looks askance. " Well, dam it, then, bribe him." " You can't bribe an
English policeman." " You mean that ? " " Not a chance." " My God, what
a country I " said old Stoker, with a sort of whistling groan, and you
could see that he would never be able to feel quite the same towards
England again. My dudgeon melted. We Woosters are human, and the
spectacle of so much anguish in a moderately sized room was too much for
me. I

crossed to the fire-place and pressed the bell. With the result that
just as old Stoker was beginning to say what he thought about the
English policeman, the door opened and there was Jeeves. Old Stoker eyed
him balefully. " You back ? " " Yes, sir." " Well ? " " Sir ? " " What
do you want ? " " The bell rang, sir." Chuffy did another spot of
hand-waving. " No, no, Jeeves. Nobody rang." I stepped forward. " I
rang, Chuffy." " What for ? " " For Jeeves." " We don't want Jeeves." "
Chuffy, old man," I said, and those present were, no doubt, thrilled by
the quiet gravity of my tone, " if there could ever be a time when you
wanted Jeeves more than you do now, I ..." I lost the thread of my
remarks, and had to start again. " Chuffy," I said, " what I'm driving
at is that there is only one man who Can get you out of this mess. He
stands before you. I mean Jeeves," I said, to make the thing clearer. "
You know as well as I do that on these occasions Jeeves always finds the
way." Chuffy was plainly impressed. I could see that memory had begun to
stir, and that he was recalling some of the man's triumphs.

" By Jove, yes. That's right. He does, doesn't he ? " " He does,
indeed." I shot a quelling glance at old Stoker, who had started to say
something about angels, and turned to the man. " Jeeves," I said, " we
require your cooperation and advice." " Very good, sir." " To begin
with, let me give you a brief synopsis ... do I mean synopsis ? " " Yes,
sir. Synopsis is perfectly correct." "... a brief synopsis, then, of the
position of affairs. I have no doubt that you recall the late Mr. George
Stoker. That cable you brought just now was to say that his will, under
the terms of which Mr. Stoker here has benefited so considerably, is
being contested on the ground that the testator was as goofy as a coot."
"Yes, sir."                                              <) " In
rebuttal of this, Mr. Stoker had intended to bung Sir Roderick Glossop
into the witness box to testify as an expert that old George was Grade
A. in the sanity line. Not a gibber in him, if you see what I mean. And
in ordinary circs this move could not have failed. It would have brought
home the bacon infallibly." " Yes, sir." " But, and this is the nub of
the thing, Jeeves -Sir Roderick is now in the potting-shed- the larger
potting-shed-with his face covered        .,| with burnt cork and a
sharp sentence for

burglary staring him in the eyeball. You see how this weakens him as a
force ? " " Yes, sir." " In this world, Jeeves, you can do one of two
things. You can set yourself up as a final authority on whether your
fellow man is sane or not, or you can go blacking your face and getting
put in potting-sheds. You cannot do both. So what is to be done, Jeeves
? " " I would suggest removing Sir Roderick from the shed, sir." I
turned to the meeting. " There I Didn't I tell you Jeeves would find the
way ? " One dissentient voice. Old Stoker's. He seemed bent on heckling.
" Remove him from the shed, yes ? " he said, and in an exceedingly nasty
voice. " How ? With a team of angels ? " He started his buffalo
imitations again, and I had to shush him pretty firmly. " Can you remove
Sir R. from the s., Jeeves ? " " Yes, sir." " You are convinced of this
? " " Yes, sir." " You have already formulated a plan or scheme ? " "
Yes, sir." "I take it all back," said old Stoker reverently. " Forget I
said it. Get me out of this jam and you can come and wake me up in the
night and talk about angels, if you want."

" Thank you, sir. By removing Sir Roderick before he is actually brought
into the presence of his lordship, sir," proceeded Jeeves, " we shall, I
think, obviate all unpleasantness. His identity is not yet known to
either Constable Dobson or Sergeant Voules. The constable had never seen
him before their meeting last night, and assumes that he is a member of
the troupe of negroid minstrels who performed on Mr. Stoker's yacht.
Sergeant Voules is under the same impression. We have, therefore, only
to release Sir Roderick before the matter is gone further into, and all
will be well." I followed him. " I follow you, Jeeves," I said. " If you
will allow me, sir, I will now sketch out the method which I would
advocate for accomplishing this end." "Yes," said old Stoker. "What is
this method ? Spill it." I held up a hand. A thought had struck me. "
Wait, Jeeves," I said. " Just one moment." I fixed old Stoker with a
compelling eye. " Before we go any further, there are two things to be
settled. Do you give your solemn word to purchase Chuffnell Hall from
old Chuffy here at a price to be agreed upon between the two contracting
parties ? " " Yes, yes, yes. Let's get on." " And you consent to thv-
union of your daughter Pauline with old Chuffy, and none of that rot
about her marrying me ? "

" Sure, sure I " ' Jeeves," I said, " you may speak." I stepped back,
and gave him the floor- noting, as I did so, that his eye was agleam
with the light of pure intelligence. His head, as usual, bulged out at
the back. " Having given this matter a good deal of    consideration,
sir, I have come to the conclusion that the chief difficulty that
confronts us in our attempt upon our objective lies in the presence
before the entrance of the potting-shed of Constable Dobson." " Very
true, Jeeves." " He represents the crux, if I may say so." " Certainly
you ftlay say so, Jeeves. Another way of putting it would be 'the snag '
? " " Precisely, sir. Our first move, accordingly, must be to eliminate
Constable Dobson." " That's what I said," put in old Stoker rather
querulously. " And you wouldn't listen to me." I squelched him. " You
wanted to hit him over the head with a spade or something. All wrong.
What is needed here is ... what's the word, Jeeves ? " " Finesse, sir."
" Exactly. Carry on, Jeeves." " This, in my opinion, may be readily
accomplished by sending word to him that the parlourmaid, Mary, wishes
to see him in the raspberry bushes." I was stunned by the man's
sagacity, but not

so stunned as to be unable to turn to the others and add an explanatory
footnote. " This Mary, this parlourmaid," I said, " is betrothed to the
blighter Dobson, and while I have only seen her in the distance, I can
testify that she is exactly the sort of girl any red-blooded constable
would come leaping into the raspberry bushes to meet. Full of sex
appeal, eh, Jeeves ?" " An exceedingly attractive young woman, sir. And
I think that we might make matters even more certain by including in the
message a word to the effect that she had a cup of coffee and a ham
sandwich for him. The constable, I find, has not yet breakfasted." I
winced. " Skim lightly over this bit, Jeeves. I am not made of marble."
" I beg your pardon, sir. I was forgetting." " Quite all right, Jeeves.
You will have to square Mary, of course ? " " No, sir. I have been
canvassing her views, and I find that she is extremely eager to convey
refreshment to the officer. I would suggest giving her a
message-ostensibly from the latter-to the effect that he is waiting at
the spot indicated." I had to interrupt. " A snag, Jeeves. A crux, in
fact. If he wanted food, why wouldn't he come straight to the house ? "
" He would be apprehensive of being observed by Sergeant Voules, sir. He
is under strict orders from his superior to remain at his post."

" Then would he leave it ? " asked Chuff y. " My dear old man," I said.
" He has not yet breakfasted. And this girl will be dripping with coffee
and ham sandwiches. Don't hold up the run of the dialogue with foolish
questions. Yes, Jeeves ? " "In his absence, sir, it would be a simple
task to remove Sir Roderick and lead him to some place of concealment.
His lordship's bedroom suggests itself." " And Dobson wouldn't have the
nerve to confess that he had" abandoned the post of duty. That's what
you're driving at ? " " Precisely, sir, his lips would be sealed." Old
Stoker shoved himself forward again. " No good," he said. " Wouldn't
work. I'm not saying we couldn't get Glossop away, but the cops would
see that there had been funny business. Their man would have gone, and
they'd figure it out that somebody had got him away. They would put two
and two together and get wise to us having done it. Last night, for
example, on my yacht ..." He stopped, not wishing, I suppose, to
disinter the dead past, but I saw what he meant. When I had got away
from the yacht, it hadn't taken him long to see that Jeeves must have
been at the bottom of it. " It's a point, Jeeves," I was bound to say. "
The constabulary might not be able to do anything definite, but they
would talk about it, and before we knew where we were, the

story would be out that Sir Roderick had been roaming around with his
face blacked up. The local paper would get hold of it. One of those
gossip-writers you find at the Drones, always waiting with their ears
flapping for good stuff about the eminent, would hear of it, and then we
should be just as badly off as if the old boy went and picked oakum at
Dartmoor or somewhere for years." " No, sir. The officers would find a
prisoner in the shed. I would advocate substituting you for Sir
Roderick." I stared at the man. " Me ? " "It is vital, if I may be
allowed to point it put, sir, that a black-faced prisoner be found in
the shed when the moment arrives for the accused to be conducted before
his lordship." " But I don't look like old Glossop. We're built on
different lines.   Me-slender and willowy; him . . . well, I don't wish
to say anything derogatory concerning one who is bound to the aunt of an
old friend by ties warmer than those of ... well, what I'm driving at is
that you couldn't by any stretch of the imag. call him slender and
willowy." " You are forgetting, sir, that only Constable Dobson has
actually seen the prisoner ; and his lips, as I say, will be sealed." It
was true. I had forgotten that. " Yes, but, Jeeves, dash it, anxious as
I am to bring aid and comfort to this stricken home,

I'm not so bally keen on doing five years in the jug for burglary." "
There is no danger of that, sir. The building into which Sir Roderick
was breaking at the moment of his arrest was your own garage." " But,
Jeeves. Reflect. Consider. Review the position. Am I supposed to have
allowed myself to be pinched for breaking into my own garage and shut up
in a shed all night without saying a word ? It isn't . . . what is it .
. .it isn't plausible." " It is only necessary to induce Sergeant Voules
to believe it, sir. What the constable may think is immaterial, owing to
the fact that his lips are sealed." " But Voules wouldn't believe it for
a minute." " Oh, yes, sir. I fancy that he is under the impression that
it is a frequent practice of yours to sleep in sheds." Chuffy uttered a
glad cry. " Of course. He'll just take it for granted that you've been
mopping it up again." I was frigid. " Oh ? " I said, and you couldn't
have described my voice as anything but caustic. " So I am to go down in
the history of Chuff nell Regis as one of our leading dipsomaniacs ? " "
He may just think him potty," suggested Pauline. " That's right," said
Chuffy. He turned to me pleadingly. " Bertie," he said, " you aren't
going to tell me at this time of day that you have any objection to
being considered ..."

' . . . Mentally negligible," said Pauline. " Exactly," said Chuffy. "
Of course you'll do it. What, Bertie Wooster ? Sacrifice himself to a
little temporary inconvenience to save his friends ? Why, he jumps at
that sort of job." " Springs at it," said Pauline. " Leaps at it," said
Chuffy. " I've always thought he was a fine young fellow," said old
Stoker. " I remember thinking so the first time I met him." " So did I,"
said Lady Chuffnell. " So different from so many of these modem young
men." " I liked his face."                                     II " I
have always liked his face." My head was swimming a bit. It isn't often
I get as good a Press as this, and the old salve was beginning to unman
me. I tried feebly to stem the tide. " Yes, but listen . . ." " I was at
school with Bertie Wooster," said Chuffy. " I like to think of it. At
private school and also at Eton and after that at Oxford. He was loved
by everybody." " Because of his wonderful, unselfish nature ? " asked
Pauline. " You've absolutely hit it. Because of his wonderful, unselfish
nature. Because when it was a question of helping a pal he would go
through fire and water to do so. I wish I had a quid for every time I've
seen him take the blame for somebody else's dirty work on his own broad
shoulders."

" How splendid I " said Pauline. " Just what I'd have expected of him,"
said old Stoker. " Just," said Lady ChuffnelL " The child is the father
of the man." " You would see him face a furious head master with a sort
of dauntless look in those big blue eyes of his . . ." I held up a hand.
" Enough, Chuffy," I said. " Sufficient. I will go through this ghastly
ordeal. But one word. When I come out, do I get breakfast ? " " You get
the best breakfast Chuffnell Hall can provide." I eyed him searchingly.
" Kippers ? " " Schools of kippers." " Toast ? " " Mounds of toast." "
And coffee ? " " Pots." I inclined the head. " Well, mind I do," I said.
" Come, Jeeves, I am ready to accompany you." " Very good, sir. If I
might be permitted to make an observation-- ? " " Yes, Jeeves ? " "It is
a far, far better thing that you do than you have ever done, sir." "
Thank you, Jeeves." As I said before, there is nobody who puts these
things more neatly than he does.

CHAPTER XXII

JEEVES APPLIES FOR A SITUATION

THE sunlight poured into the small morning-room of Chuffnell Hall. It
played upon me, sitting at a convenient table ; on Jeeves, hovering in
the background ; on the skeletons of four kippered herrings; on a
coffee-pot; and on an empty toast rack. I poured myself out the final
drops of coffee and sipped thoughtfully. Recent events had set their
seal upon me, and it was a graver, more mature Bertram Wooster who now
eyed the toast rack and, finding nothing there, transferredhis gaze to
the man in attendance. " Who's the cook at the Hall now, Jeeves ? " " A
woman of the name of Perkins, sir." " She dishes up a nifty breakfast.
Convey my compliments to her." " Very good, sir." I touched the cup to
my lips. " All this is rather like the gentle sunshine after the storm,
Jeeves." " Extremely like, sir." " And it was quite a storm, what ? " "
Very trying at times, sir." " Trying is the mot juste, Jeeves. I was
thinkingof my own trial at that very moment. I flatter myself that I am
a strong man, Jeeves. I

am not easily moved by life's untoward happenings.But I'm bound to
confess that it was an unpleasant experience coming up before Chuffy. I
was nervous and embarrassed. A good deal of the awful majesty of the Law
about old Chuffy. I didn't know he wore horned-rimmed spectacles." "
When acting as Justice of the Peace, invariably, I understand, sir. I
gather that his lordship finds that they lend him confidence in his
magisterial duties." " Well, I think someone ought to have warned me. I
got a nasty shock. They change his whole expression. Make him look just
like my Aunt Agatha. It was only by reminding myself that he and I had
once stood in the same dock together at Bow Street, charged with raising
Cain on Boat Race night, that I was enabled to maintain my sang froid.
However, the unpleasantnesswas short-lived. I must admit he rushed
things through nice and quickly. He soon settled Dobson's hash, what ? "
" Yes, sir." " A rather severe reprimand, I thought ? " " Well phrased,
sir." " And Bertram dismissed without a stain on his character." " Yes,
sir." " But with Police Sergeant Voules firmly convinced that he is
either an inveterate souse or a congenital loony. Possibly both.
However,"I proceeded, turning from the dark side, *' it is no use
worrying about that."

" Very true, sir." " The main point is that once again you have shown
that there is no crisis which you are unable to handle. A very smooth
effort, Jeeves. Exceedingly smooth." " I could have effected nothing
without your co-operation, sir." " Tush, Jeeves! I was amerepawnin
the game." " Oh, no, sir." " Yes, Jeeves. I know my place. But there's
just one thing. Don't think for a moment that I want to detract from the
merit of your performance,but you did have a bit of luck, what ? " " Sir
? " " Well, that cable happening to come along in what you might call
the very nick of time. A fortunate coincidence." " No, sir. I had
anticipated its arrival." " What! " " In the cable which I dispatched to
my friend Benstead in New York the day before yesterday, I urged him to
lose no time in retransmitting the message which formed the body of my
communication." " You don't mean to say-- ? " " Immediately after the
rift had occurred between Mr. Stoker and Sir Roderick Glossop,
involving, as it did, the former's decision not to purchase Chuffnell
Hall and the consequent unpleasantness to his lordship and Miss Stoker,
the dispatching of the cable to Benstead suggesteditself to me as a
possible solution. I

surmised that the news that the late Mr. Stoker's will was being
contested would lead to a reconciliation between Mr. Stoker and Sir
Roderick." " And there's nobody contesting the will really ? " " No,
sir." " But what about when old Stoker finds out ? " " I feel convinced
that his natural relief will overcome any possible resentment at the
artifice. And he has already signed the necessary documents relating to
the sale of Chufmell Hall." " So that even if he's as sick as mud he
can't do a thing ? " " Exactly, sir." I fell into a moody silence. Apart
from astounding me, this revelation had had the effect of engendering a
poignant anguish. I mean to say, the thought that I had let this man get
away from me, that he was now in Chuffy's employment, and that there was
a fat chance of Chuffy ever being chump enough to put him into
circulation again . . . well, dash it, you can't say it wasn't enough to
shove the iron into the soul. It was with something of the spirit of the
old aristocrat mounting the tumbril that I forced myself to wear the
mask. " Cigarette, Jeeves ? " He produced the box, and I puffed in
silence. "Might I ask, sir, what you intend to do now?" I came out of
the reverie. " Eh ? " " Now that your cottage is burned down, sir.

Is it your purpose to take another in this neighbourhood ? " I shook the
head. " No, Jeeves, I shall return to the metrop." " To your former
apartment, sir ? " " Yes." "But . . ." I anticipated the question. " I
know what you are going to say, Jeeves. You are thinking of Mr.
Manglehoffer, of the       " Honourable Mrs. Tinkler-MouIke and
Lieutenant-Colonel J. J. Bustard. But circumstances have altered since I
was compelled to take the firm stand I did in regard to their attitude
towards the old banjolele. From now on, there will be       i no
friction. My banjolele perished in the flames last night, Jeeves. I
shall not buy another." " No, sir ? " " No, Jeeves. The zest has gone. I
should not be able to twang a string without thinking of Brinkley. And
the one thing I do not wish to do till further notice is think of that
man of wrath." " You are not intending to retain him in your employment,
then, sir ? " " Retain him in my employment ? After what has occurred ?
After finishing first by the shortest of heads in the race with him and
his carving knife ? I do not so intend, Jeeves. Stalin, yes. Al Capone,
certainly. But not Brinkley." He coughed. " Then, as there is a vacancy
in your establishment, sir, I wonder if you would consider

it a liberty if I were to offer my services ? " I upset the coffeepot. "
You said-what, Jeeves ? " " I ventured to express the hope, sir, that
you might be agreeable to considering my applicationfor the post.  I
should endeavour to give satisfaction, as I trust I have done in the
past." " But .. ," " I would not wish, in any case, to continue in the
employment of his lordship, sir, now that he is about to be married. I
yield to no one in my admiration for the many qualities of Miss Stoker,
but it has never been my policy to serve in the household of a married
gentleman." " Why not ? " " It is merely a personal feeling, sir." " I
see what you mean. The psychology of the individual ? " " Precisely,
sir." "And you really want to come back with me? " " I should esteem it
a great privilege, sir, if you would allow me to do so, sir, unless you
are thinking of making other plans." It is not easy to find words in
these supreme moments, if you know what I mean. What I mean is, you get
a moment like this-supreme, as you might say-with the clouds all cleared
away and the good old sun buzzing along on all six.



